
1. Adiposity, depression and anxiety: interrelationship and possible mediators.

OBJECTIVES: To explore the association between adiposity, major depressive
disorder and generalized anxiety disorder, and to assess the role of
inflammation, diet quality and physical activity in this association.
METHODS: We used data from 2,977 individuals from the 1993 Pelotas Cohort
(Brazil) who attended the 18- and 22-year follow-ups. We assessed general obesity
using body mass index, fat mass index, and abdominal obesity using waist
circumference. Major Depressive Disorder and generalized anxiety disorder were
assessed using the mini-international neuropsychiatric interview. C-reactive
protein and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels were used as a measure of inflammation;
diet quality was estimated using the revised diet quality index, and physical
activity was assessed by the International physical activity questionnaire (IPAQ,
min/day). The association between adiposity and major depressive disorder and
generalized anxiety disorder was assessed using logistic regression, and the
natural indirect effect via the mediators was estimated using G-computation.
RESULTS: General obesity assessed by body mass index (OR: 2.3; 95% CI:1.13;
4.85), fat mass index (OR: 2.6; 95%CI: 1.37; 4.83), and abdominal obesity (OR:
2.5; 95%CI: 1.18; 5.39) were associated with higher odds of major depressive
disorder, whereas major depressive disorder was only associated with obesity
assessed by body mass index (OR=1.9; 95% CI: 1.09; 3.46). Obesity and generalized
anxiety disorder were not associated. C-reactive protein, diet quality and
physical activity did not mediate the effect of obesity on major depressive
disorder, and C-reactive protein mediated about 25% of the effect of major
depressive disorder on adiposity.
CONCLUSIONS: Depression, but not generalized anxiety disorder, is associated with
adiposity in both directions, with a stronger evidence for the direction
obesity-depression. Inflammation explains part of the effect of major depressive 
disorder on obesity but not the other way around. Further research should explore
other mechanisms that could be involved in the association between obesity and
depression.

PMID: 31800914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2.Obsessive Compulsive Inventory - Child Version (OCI-CV): Confirmatory factor
analysis, reliability, validity and correlates among Nigerian adolescents.

Background: Obsessive compulsive symptoms (OCS) have not been studied among
Nigerian adolescents, despite studies in developed countries reporting that
almost 90% of affected adolescents do not receive any treatment. The availability
of a psychometrically valid and reliable instrument will serve as an initial step
towards the diagnosis and subsequent treatment of Nigerian adolescent obsessive
compulsive disorder (OCD).
Aims: The aim of this study was to examine the psychometric characteristics as
well as correlates of the Obsessive Compulsive Inventory - Child Version (OCI-CV)
in a non-clinical sample of Nigerian adolescents.
Methods: This was a cross-sectional study involving 1017 adolescents who
completed the Obsessive Compulsive Inventory-Child Version (OCI-CV), the Hospital
Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), General Health Questionnaire-12 (GHQ-12) and
Rosenberg's Self-Esteem Scale (RSES). The model fit of the OCI-CV 6 factors was
examined through confirmatory factor analysis. Reliability was determined by
calculating the McDonald's Omega hierarchical (ωh) values while its concurrent
validity was examined through correlational analyses.
Results: The overall internal consistency of the OCI-CV was 0.96. The indices of 
fitness obtained on subjecting the 21 items of the OCI-CV to CFA indicated
modestly acceptable indices of fitness despite satisfactory item loading on the 6
subscales. Statistically significant correlations were observed between OCI-CV
and the other study measures. OCS was reported by 37.8%.
Conclusion: The OCI-CV has exhibited satisfactory psychometric properties among
Nigerian adolescents.

PMID: 31798805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3.Improving skin picking diagnosis among Brazilians: validation of the Skin Picking
Impact Scale and development of a photographic instrument.


BACKGROUND: Skin picking disorder is a prevalent disorder frequently comorbid
with depression and anxiety, which is underdiagnosed mainly by dermatologists.
Assessment of skin picking disorder is based on instruments influenced by the
awareness about skin picking disorder and comorbid symptoms. To date, there is no
validated instrument for Brazilian individuals nor an instrument to evaluate the 
severity of skin lesions in an objective way.
OBJECTIVES: Validate the Skin Picking Impact Scale for Brazilian Portuguese and
create a photographic measurement to assess skin lesions.
METHODS: The sample was assessed through the Skin Picking Impact Scale translated
into Brazilian Portuguese, the Hamilton Anxiety Scale, the Beck Depression
Inventory, and the Clinical Global Impression Scale. The patients' skin lesions
were photographed. Photos were evaluated regarding active excoriation,
crust/bleeding, exulceration, and linear lesions.
RESULTS: There were 63 patients included. The Skin Picking Impact Scale
translated into Brazilian Portuguese had good internal consistency (Cronbach's
alpha=0.88), which tests of goodness-of-fit, showing a suitable model. The
reliability of photographic measurement was 0.66, with a high internal
consistency (Cronbach's alpha=0.87). Photographic measurement was not correlated 
with the Skin Picking Impact Scale, the Clinical Global Impression Scale, or
comorbid symptoms.
STUDY LIMITATIONS: Lack of a previously validated instrument to evaluate
dermatillomania in the Brazilian population for comparison.
CONCLUSION: The Skin Picking Impact Scale validated in Brazilian Portuguese is a 
good instrument to evaluate skin picking disorder. Photographic measurement is a 
consistent way of assessing skin lesions, but it does not reflect the impact of
skin picking disorder on the individual's life.

PMID: 31777356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4.Sexual Assault Reporting and Emotional Distress Among College Female-Identified
Victims/Survivors.


PURPOSE: The current study tests associations between reporting sexual
victimization to a healthcare provider, campus authority, police, or social
contact, and emotional well-being among college women.
METHODS: Data from 2,162 women who participated in the 2015 College Student
Health Survey at 17 colleges in Minnesota was used. Analyses tested associations 
between reporting sexual assault to formal or informal resources and diagnosis
with anxiety, depression, panic attacks, and posttraumatic stress disorder, as
well as self-rated health.
RESULTS: Significantly higher rates of all four diagnoses were observed among
those who reported to formal resources (e.g., healthcare provider, police)
compared with those who reported to informal resources (i.e., friends, family).
However, no differences were seen in self-rated physical or mental health.
CONCLUSIONS: Expansion of trauma-informed healthcare services and advocacy
efforts is recommended to optimally support students who report sexual assault
experiences.

PMID: 31764526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5.Anxiety Disorders in Primary Care Settings.


Although anxiety disorders are extremely prevalent in primary care settings,
barriers such as a lack of knowledge, time constraints, and lack of common
presentation can lead to misdiagnosis and ineffective treatment. Optimal
treatment of anxiety disorders includes both pharmacologic and behavioral
interventions. The purpose of this article is to assist primary care providers in
quick identification of anxiety disorders so that proper treatment can be
initiated and appropriate referrals can be made.

PMID: 31703774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6.Effect of Fluoxetine on Obsessive-Compulsive Behaviors in Children and
Adolescents With Autism Spectrum Disorders: A Randomized Clinical Trial.


Importance: Selective serotonin receptor inhibitors are prescribed to reduce the 
severity of core behaviors of autism spectrum disorders, but their efficacy
remains uncertain.
Objective: To determine the efficacy of fluoxetine for reducing the frequency and
severity of obsessive-compulsive behaviors in autism spectrum disorders.
Design, Setting, and Participants: Multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled
clinical trial. Participants aged 7.5-18 years with autism spectrum disorders and
a total score of 6 or higher on the Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive
Scale, modified for pervasive developmental disorder (CYBOCS-PDD) were recruited 
from 3 tertiary health centers across Australia. Enrollment began November 2010
and ended April 2017. Follow-up ended August 2017.
Interventions: Participants were randomized to receive fluoxetine (n = 75) or
placebo (n = 71). Study medication was commenced at 4 or 8 mg/d for the first
week, depending on weight, and then titrated to a maximum dose of 20 or 30 mg/d
over 4 weeks. Treatment duration was 16 weeks.
Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcome was the total score on the
CYBOCS-PDD (scores range from 0-20; higher scores indicate higher levels of
maladaptive behaviors; minimal clinically important difference, 2 points) at 16
weeks postrandomization, analyzed with a linear regression model adjusted for
stratification factors (site, age at baseline, and intellectual disability), with
an additional prespecified model that included additional adjustment for baseline
score, sex, communication level, and imbalanced baseline and demographic
variables.
Results: Among the 146 participants who were randomized (85% males; mean age,
11.2 years), 109 completed the trial; 31 in the fluoxetine group and 21 in the
placebo group dropped out or did not complete treatment. The mean CYBOCS-PDD
score from baseline to 16 weeks decreased in the fluoxetine group from 12.80 to
9.02 points (3.72-point decrease; 95% CI, -4.85 to -2.60) and in the placebo
group from 13.13 to 10.89 points (2.53-point decrease; 95% CI, -3.86 to -1.19).
The between-group mean difference at 16 weeks was -2.01 (95% CI, -3.77 to -0.25; 
P = .03) (adjusted for stratification factors), and in the prespecified model
with further adjustment, it was -1.17 (95% CI, -3.01 to 0.67; P = .21).
Conclusions and Relevance: In this preliminary study of children and adolescents 
with autism spectrum disorders, treatment with fluoxetine compared with placebo
resulted in significantly lower scores for obsessive-compulsive behaviors at 16
weeks. Interpretation is limited by the high dropout rate, null findings of
prespecified analyses that accounted for potentially confounding factors and
baseline imbalances, and CIs for the treatment effect that included the minimal
clinically important difference.
Trial Registration: anzctr.org.au Identifier: ACTRN12608000173392.

PMID: 31638682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7.ASSOCIATION BETWEEN FATIGUE AND EXERCISE CAPACITY IN PATIENTS WITH CHRONIC LIVER 
DISEASE AWAITING LIVER TRANSPLANTATION.


BACKGROUND: Fatigue is highly prevalent in end stage liver disease, the studies
about its association with exercise capacity in cirrhotic patients before liver
are scarse.
OBJECTIVE: In this study, we evaluated fatigue in 95 in end stage liver disease
patients awaiting transplantation, compared to healthy volunteers, and tested the
association between exercise capacity and fatigue.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study of patients with chronic liver disease treated at 
a referral center in Fortaleza, Brazil. Fatigue was quantified with the Fatigue
Severity Scale. The patients were submitted to the 6-min walk test, the 6-min
step test, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, C-reative protein
measurement and hematocrit count, measurement of dyspnea among other tests.
Fatigue data were obtained from healthy individuals for comparison with patients.
RESULTS: The mean age of patients was 45.9±12.3 years, and 53.7% were male.
Fatigue, anxiety and depression levels were higher among end stage liver disease 
patients than among controls. A negative correlation was observed between 6 min
step test and Fatigue Severity Scale score (r= -0.2; P=0.02) and between
hematocrit count and Fatigue Severity Scale score (r= -0.24; P=0.002). Dyspnea on
the Borg scale and fatigue were positively correlated (r=31; P=0.002). In the
multivariate analysis, low 6-min step test values and high levels of dyspnea were
associated with fatigue.
CONCLUSION: Fatigue was more prevalent and severe in end stage liver disease
patients than in healthy controls. Low 6MST values and high levels of dyspnea
were associated with fatigue in this scenario.

PMID: 31633720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8.Depression in elderly patients with hearing loss: current perspectives.

Hearing loss (HL) is highly common in older adulthood, constituting the third
most prevalent chronic health condition in this population. In addition to posing
a substantial burden to disease and negatively impacting quality of life, an
emerging literature highlights that HL is associated with unipolar depression
including among older adults. This review outlines evidence examining the HL and 
depression relationship as well as clinical implications for assessment and
treatment of comorbid depression and HL. Although prevalence estimates of
comorbid depression in HL vary, as many as 1 in 5 experience clinically relevant 
depression symptoms. Both cross-sectional and longitudinal studies indicate that 
HL is related to increased unipolar depression symptoms, although the strength of
the association varies between studies. A range of methodological variations,
such as inclusion age, severity of HL and assessment of depression, likely
underpin this heterogeneity. Overall, however, the evidence clearly points to an 
association of HL with clinically relevant depression symptoms. The association
with the diagnosis of major depression disorder remains less clear and
under-researched. HL is also associated with a range of other poor mental health 
outcomes in older adults, including anxiety and suicidal ideation, and predicts
poorer cognitive functioning. Accordingly, assessment and treatment of comorbid
depression in HL is pertinent to promote mental well-being among older adults.
Currently, evidence regarding best practice for treating depression in HL remains
scant. Preliminary evidence indicates that audiological rehabilitation, including
use of hearing aids, as well as community-based hearing interventions can also
improve mental health. Psychological intervention that enhances communication
skills and addresses coping strategies might also be beneficial for this
population. Additionally, evidence suggests that online interventions are
feasible and may circumvent communication difficulties in therapy associated with
HL. Due to poor help-seeking among this population, an enhanced focus on specific
and targeted assessment and treatment is likely necessary to ensure reduced
mental health burden among older adults with HL.

PMID: 31616138  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9.Novel investigational therapeutics for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).

Introduction: Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a common and disabling
psychiatric condition that affects 3% of the population and exacts significant
costs to society if untreated. There are numerous treatment options available,
but all have side effects, and none are reliably effective; hence, there is a
significant need for new medications.Areas covered: The authors reviewed clinical
Phase II and III studies listed on the clinicaltrials.gov and
clinicaltrialsregister.eu websites, 2007-present. Additional information was
gathered from the study sponsor websites and Pubmed. The categories of mechanisms
investigated include: modulators of GABAergic or glutamatergic activity;
modulators of monoaminergic systems including serotonin, norepinephrine, and
dopamine; and modulators of neuropeptide corticotropin release factor.Expert
opinion: There are few investigational drugs in the later stages of clinical
development. Challenges include high placebo response rates, enrollment of
symptomatic volunteers with minimal depressive and anxiety comorbidity, and the
lack of a unifying pathophysiological model. Drug developers should consider
implementing trial designs such as sequential parallel comparison design to
enhance signal detection. Inclusion of depressive comorbidity may also enhance
signal detection by reducing placebo-responsivity. More studies examining
glutamate-mediated neuroplasticity in GAD are needed.


PMID: 31607187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10.Quality of life, pain and anxiety in patients with nephrostomy tubes.


OBJECTIVE: to evaluate the impact on the quality of life as well as anxiety and
pain in patients with nephrostomy tubes.
METHOD: this is a longitudinal descriptive study performed on a sample of n=150
patients. To evaluate the quality of life, the EuroQol-5D questionnaire was used;
anxiety was quantified by the Beck Anxiety Inventory; to study pain, a visual
analogue scale was employed.
RESULTS: statistically significant differences were found in the quality of life,
with its worsening (r = 0.51; p <0.01) when evaluated at the first tube
replacement. Patients presented mild to moderate anxiety before the procedure,
which was reduced at the first tube replacement, although this difference was not
significant (r = 0.028, p = 0.393). Finally, the degree of pain was also
significantly reduced (r = 0.13, p<0.01) after six weeks. As for gender, women
presented the worst values ​​in the three variables studied (worse quality of
life and greater anxiety and pain).
CONCLUSIONS: nephrostomy tubes have a negative impact on the patient's quality of
life. During the time they live with these tubes, patients have mild to moderate 
pain and anxiety.

DOI: 10.1590/1518-8345.3039.3191 
PMCID: PMC6781322
PMID: 31596421  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11.Screening for symptoms of depression and anxiety in a cardiology department.

BACKGROUND: Depression and anxiety are common in patients with cardiac disease
and predict a poorer prognosis, increased mortality and reduced compliance with
treatment. National and international guidelines recommend procedures for
screening, but there is a lack of studies of such practices in Norwegian
hospitals. The objective of this study was to implement a simple screening method
for symptoms of depression and anxiety in patients with cardiac disease.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Patients in the Department of Cardiology at Diakonhjemmet
Hospital who had valvular heart disease, tachyarrhythmia, myocardial infarction
or heart failure were screened for symptoms of depression, anxiety and panic
attacks with the aid of five questions from the Patient Health Questionnaire-2
(PHQ-2), Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale-2 (GAD-2) and Patient Health
Questionnaire - Somatic, Anxiety, and Depressive Symptom Scales (PHQ-SADS). The
patients were recruited from the outpatient clinic or ward at least one month
after acute heart disease.
RESULTS: A total of 57 of 232 patients reported symptoms of depression or anxiety
when screened. The screening method was easy to implement, but time constraints
and uncertainty regarding procedures for follow-up and the effect of following up
the patients were reported.
INTERPRETATION: Good tools and methods are available for screening for symptoms
of depression and anxiety and anxiety in patients with cardiac disease. More
studies are needed regarding the benefits of screening, at what stage of the
disease it should be performed, and whether it should be performed by the primary
and/or the specialist health services.

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.18.0570 
PMID: 31592606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12.Comparison of psychiatric disturbances in patients with multiple sclerosis and
neuromyelitis optica.

Although both multiple sclerosis (MS) and neuromyelitis optica (NMO) are
demyelinating diseases, their psychiatric disturbances may differ given
differences in the neurological manifestations. We used subjective and objective 
measurements to compare the psychiatric disturbances in patients with MS and
NMO.Psychiatric disturbances were assessed in 24 MS and 35 NMO patients using the
Beck Hopelessness Scale, Symptom Checklist-95 and the brief version of World
Health Organization Quality of Life. Personality was assessed using the Big Five 
Inventory-10. Disease-related function was assessed using the Fatigue Severity
Scale, Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire, and the Global Assessment of
Function. Positivity offset (PO) and negativity bias (NB) and heart rate
variability (HRV) were measured using a modified implicit affect test and
photoplethysmograph, respectively. Data were analyzed using analysis of
covariance with age and sex as covariates.MS patients had higher levels of
depression, anxiety, panic attacks, obsessive-compulsiveness, aggression,
paranoia, interpersonal sensitivity, self-regulation problems, stress
vulnerability, and lower psychological quality of life (QOL) compared with NMO
patients. The PO and NB and HRV values were not significantly different between
groups. However, NMO patients had lower QOL, and higher levels of hopelessness,
suicidality, and fatigue than the normal range. Disease duration was associated
with hopelessness in NMO patients and with several psychiatric disturbances, but 
not hopelessness, in MS patients.Subjective psychiatric disturbances were more
severe in patients with MS than in those with NMO, whereas PO and NB and HRV in
patients with NMO were comparable with those of MS patients. Our findings
highlight the need for different clinical approaches to assess and treat
psychiatric disturbances in patients with MS and NMO.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000017184 
PMCID: PMC6756707
PMID: 31567960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13.Prevalence of and risk factors for anxiety after coronary heart disease:
Systematic review and meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: As the most important component of cardiovascular disease, coronary
heart disease (CHD) is closely related to psychological factors such as anxiety. 
Anxiety, whether present before or after the onset of illness, can lead to many
serious consequences. The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to 
assess the prevalence of and potential risk factors for anxiety after coronary
heart disease (post-CHD anxiety).
METHOD: Systematic searches were performed in electronic databases including
China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), Wanfang, Technology Journal
database (VIP), PubMed, Web of Science, Embase and Medline.
RESULT: Thirteen studies were included. With regard to cross-sectional studies,
the prevalence of post-CHD anxiety was P = .37, 95% CI (0.26-0.49). The overall
analysis among cohort studies revealed that the prevalence of post-CHD anxiety
was P = .50, 95% CI (0.05-0.95). Among the 11 potential risk factors, low
education level [OR = 1.46, 95% CI (1.05-2.02)] and long duration of disease
[OR = 2.05, 95% CI (1.05-4.00)] were statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: There is high heterogeneity between studies and many defects; thus,
further research is required to support these results. Attention should be paid
to post-CHD anxiety, and clinical caring should include psychological counselling
and imparting disease-related knowledge to patients with a long disease duration 
and low educational background.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000016973 
PMCID: PMC6756742
PMID: 31567932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. 'Organic Anxiety' in a Middle-aged Man Presenting with Dyspnoea: a Case Report.

We report a case of pulmonary embolism in a patient who presented with repeated
anxiety attacks and psychotic symptoms and was misdiagnosed as having withdrawal 
seizure or anxiety disorder not otherwise specified. This case highlighted the
nonspecific clinical features of pulmonary embolism and the principles in making 
psychiatric diagnosis. Careful history taking, thorough physical examination,
appropriate investigation, and a high index of suspicion led to the correct
diagnosis. The principle of hierarchy of psychiatric diagnosis (ie, organic over 
non-organic) and the possibility of comorbidities should always apply.

DOI: 10.12809/eaap1806 
PMID: 31566187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15.Integrating addiction medicine into rural primary care: Strategies and initial
outcomes.

OBJECTIVE: This retrospective study describes the role of behavioral health in an
addiction medicine program integrated in a primary care clinic, and evaluates
retention, substance use, and mental health symptoms for patients in a rural
underserved community.
METHOD: Data were abstracted from records of patients referred for buprenorphine 
treatment of opioid use disorder (N = 101; 45% female, 23% Native Hawaiian or
Pacific Islander, Mage = 42.5, SD = 12.75). Among patients prescribed
buprenorphine (n = 61), most had comorbid substance-related diagnoses (72% with
tobacco use, 75% with at least one other substance use disorder) and
non-substance-related mental health diagnoses (77%), most commonly depression and
anxiety. Integrated sessions with a behavioral health provider and a
buprenorphine-waivered prescriber occurred weekly to monthly. Participants
completed depression and anxiety questionnaires (Patient Health Questionnaire-9
and Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale-7) and provided urine samples at each
visit.
RESULTS: Most patients (72%) were retained for at least 3 months, with early
dropout associated with higher initial depression and anxiety scores.
Inconsistent urine drug tests (i.e., those positive for illicit/nonprescribed
substances) were significantly more common at treatment initiation (74%) than
during the most recent visit (43%, p < .001), and were associated with baseline
substance and other mental health factors, as well as shorter treatment duration.
Generalized estimating equations models suggested time-based improvements in
depression and anxiety symptoms, especially for patients retained for at least 3 
months.
CONCLUSIONS: Integrating wraparound addiction treatment within a rural primary
care setting is feasible and associated with improved mental health and retention
outcomes. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/ccp0000410 
PMID: 31556671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16.Strategic training: The magic world of change.

"Before convincing the intellectual part of the mind it is necessary to touch and
prepare the heart", an aphorism by Blaise Pascal (Vozza 1995), refers to one of
the most important functions of strategic training, not only being successful in 
making communicative messages correctly and rationally understood, but also
involving its addressee, above all by making one enter into emotional syntony
with the communicative content. To understand the precious wealth of knowledge
that has over time brought the necessary skills to do strategic training, it is
necessary to find its roots by taking a step back in time. It is necessary to go 
as far as the fifth century BC, with Protagoras and its persuasive efficacy, with
a rapid historical excursus passing by Aristotle and his Sophistic communication 
techniques to arrive at about 2000 years later, passing through social
psychology, up to the Palo Alto strategic school. Among its various activities,
the Genius Academy Centre for Research and Psychological Studies has decided to
push two strategic training projects aiming to increase the level of well-being
perceived by the addressee and encouraging the desired change. One of the two
strategic training projects, A "Journey" in a journey, conceived by the writer,
started in 2013. The educational and therapeutic value are amplified by
optimizing the suggestions and stimuli of the journey. Another strategic training
project for future aeronautical professionals, which gives a great contribution
to the traditional technical training, is an innovative psychological programme
specifically designed to prepare, not only for technical operational challenges, 
but also for numerous psychological challenges deriving from working in a
particular environment such as the airport. It is specifically designed to study 
and improve the travel experience of people in airport transit and aims to raise 
the level of traveller's well-being, through a series of highly innovative
interventions in specifically provided areas with the use of digital reality in
coping and helping with anxiety and fear of flying.


PMID: 31488771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17.IQ over 130 and phobia: correlation, consequences and other psychopathologies.


BACKGROUND: Nowadays, anxiety disorders are becoming more and more important in
our population. And if there is one category of people more vulnerable to this
problem, it is the teenagers. In addition, more and more children and teenagers
are diagnosed with an IQ greater than 130, causing all the stress and questions
that it generates. In this project, we are comparing two groups of adolescents,
one with an IQ over 130, the other with an IQ less than 130. We are wondering if 
there is any difference between these groups, in terms of phobia and other
psychopathologies.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A sample of 35 teenagers, from 12 to 16 years old,
separated in two groups (IQ over 130 and IQ below 130), fulfilled the following
questionnaires: the School Rehabilitation Assessment Scale-Revised (SARS-R), the 
"Family Adaptability and Cohesiveness Evaluation Scale III" (FACES III), and the 
"Kiddie- SADS-lifetime" (K-SADS-PL), and a social data collection questionnaire.
RESULTS: At the end of this study, we can retain the following relevant elements:
adolescents with IQs greater than 130 are statistically more likely to be the
eldest siblings (Cochran Test F=9.159, p=0.010). They do not develop more
phobias, but are more shy (t=4.375, p=0.036) than the control population. These
high-potential and shy teenagers have a whole list of commonalities, such as
being easily irritable, being easily distracted, ect... They have fewer friends
in real life (t=2.255, p=0.033), fewer virtual friends (t=4.346, p=0.000) and
fewer virtual relationships (t=2.431, p=0.021). Their families are very cohesive 
(Test t=0.004). There is no significant role of the socio-professional class of
parents playing in the value of the IQ of their children (t=4.667, p=0.323).
CONCLUSION: To conclude, being a teenager and having an IQ greater than 130 is
not always a pleasure. Our results showed us that the majority of these young
people consider themselves as shy, unsure of themselves and claim to have many
fears. This is evidence of an increased anxiety component compared to the control
sample. It seems important to insist on the need to be able and to know how to
identify these young people as soon as possible, in order to propose appropriate 
therapeutic management.


PMID: 31488757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18.Mobius syndrome and obsessive compulsive disorder: a case report.


BACKGROUND: Mobius syndrome is characterized by a bilateral congenital paralysis 
of the facial and abducens nerves which leaves the subject with an expressionless
"mask-like" face.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Based on a literature review and a case discussion of an
adult patient with Mobius syndrome and obsessive-compulsive disorder, initially
undiagnosed and confused with a psychotic disorder, we will discuss the influence
of Mobius syndrome in psychiatric evaluations.
RESULTS: The lack of facial expressiveness and non-verbal emotional interactions 
may influence psychiatric evaluations and result in misdiagnosis and the
inappropriate prescribing of antipsychotics. In the case analysis, we also
observed other associated malformations such as renal atrophy, a bicuspid aortic 
valve and mitral valve prolapse.
CONCLUSION: We feel that educating the patient about the communicative
consequences of impaired facial expressions and facial interactions is a
necessary prerequisite for any psychiatric or psychological evaluation in
subjects with Mobius syndrome. We also recommend using caution when prescribing
antipsychotics in patients with Mobius syndrome given the motor side effects
secondary to a potentially pre-existing hypotonia.


PMID: 31488755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19.Adolescents in transition to young adulthood: evolution of mental health status
and risk factors associated with depressive and anxiety disorder.

BACKGROUND: In this paper we focus on adolescents in transition towards young
adulthood (ATYA). We know from international studies that the transition process 
makes adolescents vulnerable to mental illness. However, little is known about
Belgian ATYA mental-health status. Nor are risk factors associated with their
mental illness understood, in particular with regard to depressive and anxiety
disorder. The aim of this study is (1) to discuss evolution in time of prevalence
of depressive disorder (DD) and anxiety disorder (AD) among Belgian ATYA and (2),
to identify risk factors associated with these disorders among ATYA.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Data was extracted from the Belgian Health Interview Survey
(BHIS), which is a cross-sectional population survey, carried out in 2001, 2004, 
2008, and 2013. Information about the population's background characteristics,
health services utilization, health behaviours and mental health status were
extracted and statistically analyzed.
RESULTS: ATYA prevalence of DD and AD was higher in 2013 in comparison with
previous years. These changes were significant only for DD (F=4.466, p=0.004). In
contrast with younger adolescents, among ATYA odds of DD were 28.2% higher (OR
1.282, 95% CI 0.967-1.698, p=0.084) and, odds of AD were 55.2% higher (OR 1.552, 
95% CI 1.137-2.119, p=0.006). For ATYA, a poor quality of social support was the 
most predictive factor of DD (OR 11.187, 95% CI 5.530-22.629, p<0.0001) and AD
(OR 6.238, 95% CI 2.845-13.676, p<0.0001); whereas, having a paid job was the
most protective factor with regard to DD (OR 0.282, 95% CI 0.169-0.470, p<0.0001)
and AD (OR 0.552, 95% CI 0.330-0.924, p<0.024).
CONCLUSION: Prevalence of mental illness among Belgian ATYA appears to worsen in 
time. In comparison with younger adolescents, ATYA are more vulnerable to anxiety
disorders. Adverse and protective risk factors were identified and discussed in a
way to improve access, continuity and mental healthcare pathways for Belgian
ATYA.


PMID: 31488754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20.A newly designed intensive caregiver education program reduces cognitive
impairment, anxiety, and depression in patients with acute ischemic stroke.


This study aimed to evaluate the effect of a newly designed intensive caregiver
education program (ICEP) on reducing cognitive impairment, anxiety, and
depression in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients. One hundred and ninety-six
AIS patients were divided into ICEP group and Control group in a 1:1 ratio using 
blocked randomization method. In the ICEP group, the caregivers received ICEP,
while in the Control group caregivers received usual education and guidance. All 
patients received conventional rehabilitation treatment. Cognitive impairment
(assessed by Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) score and Montreal Cognitive
Assessment (MoCA) score), anxiety (assessed by Hospital Anxiety and Depression
Scale (HADS)-A score and Self-rating Anxiety Scale (SAS) score), and depression
(assessed by HADS-D score and Self-rating Depression Scale (SDS) score) were
assessed at baseline (M0), 3 months (M3), 6 months (M6), and 12 months (M12).
Cognitive impairment score at M12 and cognitive impairment score change (M12-M0) 
were increased, while cognitive impairment rate at M12 was reduced in the ICEP
group compared with the Control group. Anxiety score change (M12-M0), anxiety
score at M12, and anxiety rate at M12 were decreased in the ICEP group compared
with the Control group. Depression score change (M12-M0), depression score at
M12, and depression rate at M12 were lower in the ICEP group compared with the
Control group. Further subgroup analysis based on baseline features also provided
similar results. In conclusion, ICEP effectively reduced cognitive impairment,
anxiety, and depression in AIS patients.

PMID: 31483000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21.Depression, anxiety and acute pain: links and management challenges.


Pain is a subjective experience that is influenced by genetics, gender, social,
cultural and personal parameters. Opposed to chronic pain, which by definition
has to last for at least 3 months, acute pain is mostly because of trauma, acute 
medical conditions or treatment. The link between mood disorders and acute pain
has proven to be increasingly significant since the link is bi-directional, and
both act as risk factors for each other. Depression and anxiety are associated
with increased perception of pain severity, whereas prolonged duration of acute
pain leads to increased mood dysregulation. Although both depression and anxiety 
have a proven association with acute pain, the link between depression and acute 
pain is more thoroughly studied. Pain can be the presenting or sole complaint in 
depressed patients who present to primary care practices and is often overlooked 
by clinicians. However, reports on the perception of experimentally-induced pain 
in depressed patients are mixed, showing both an increased and decreased pain
threshold and pain tolerance across various studies. Although less data is
published about anxiety and pain, the relationship is consistent across studies
as increased anxiety leads to increased severity of pain perceived and decreased 
pain tolerance. Anxiety as well as fear, stress, and catastrophizing are also
shown to be mediators in the causal pathway between pain and disability.

PMID: 31482756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22.Flexibility of error-monitoring in obsessive-compulsive disorder under speed and 
accuracy instructions.

Hyperactive error monitoring is a robust neurocognitive characteristic in
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Yet, relatively little is known about the
flexibility and potential moderators of error monitoring in OCD. The current
study investigates error monitoring in 30 healthy participants and 28 patients
with OCD using a flanker task in 2 conditions either emphasizing speed or
accuracy. Results indicate that no group difference is observable in
error-related negativity (ERN) under the accuracy-focused condition. Both groups 
show an ERN attenuation in the speed condition; however, this reduction is larger
in healthy controls leading to pronounced group differences in the speed-focused 
condition. Similarly, receiver operating characteristic analyses yield an area
under the curve (AUC) of .62 in the accuracy-focused condition, whereas under
speed instruction an AUC of .85 suggests a marked increase in classification
accuracy. Behavioral results and results from a drift-diffusion model of decision
making indicate a more cautious response strategy and less adaptability to
experimental manipulations in OCD. Overall, results suggest that the observed
increases in error-related neural activity in OCD might stem from a reduced
flexibility and diminished ability to disengage from an accuracy-oriented,
error-avoidant response style. Further, the present results suggest that
emphasizing speed in experimental instructions may lead to a better neural
differentiation between patients with OCD and healthy controls which has
important implications for the use of the ERN as a risk indicator. (PsycINFO
Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 31448932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23.The clinical and psychological profiles of patients with hypogonadism, followed
in 3 reference hospitals of Cameroon: an observational study.


Introduction: Hypogonadism refers to a syndrome that results from failure of
gonads to function properly. The main concern is considerable rise in morbidity, 
as shown by increased cardiovascular risk, infertility, osteoporosis and above
all, the psychological impact on the life of the patients with hypogonadism.
Judicious steroid replacement and culturally-sensitive psychological support
before and during steroid therapy remains the key tool in the management of this 
condition. The present study aimed at filling the knowledge gap on hypogonadism
in Cameroon.
Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional study over a period of 12 months, in 3
reference hospitals of Cameroon. We included males and females diagnosed with
hypogonadism, aged 16 to 50 years and 16 to 45 years respectively. After a
complete clinical examination, patients were invited to fill the modified
middlesex hospital questionnaire for psychoneurotic evaluation.
Results: We recruited 59 patients with a sex ratio of 1:1. The mean age of the
females and males were 27.7 ± 9.1years and 30.8 ± 11.7 years respectively.
Normosmic Idiopathic Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (NIHH) was the most common
presentation. Compulsive obsessive traits, phobic anxiety and hysterical trait,
were most pronounced in these patients. Testosterone titers significantly
correlated positively with testicular size and negatively with body mass index
(BMI). A significant positive correlation was found between the testicular
volumes measured with ultrasound (US) and with the orchidometer.
Conclusion: Normosmic idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism is the most common
presentation of hypogonadism in the study population. There is a significant
psychosocial impact requiring further investigation and attention.

PMID: 31448010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Cognitive behavioral therapy for postpartum panic disorder: a case series.


BACKGROUND: Clinical anxiety is common during the perinatal period, and anxiety
symptoms often persist after childbirth. Ten to 30 % of perinatal women are
diagnosed with panic disorder (PD)-far more than the 1.5-3% rate among the
general population. Although cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) has been
determined to be an effective treatment for PD, few studies have been conducted
on CBT effectiveness in treating postpartum PD and, to the best of the knowledge 
of the present authors, no research has been conducted on postpartum PD among
Japanese women. In this manuscript, we report on our administration of CBT to
three postpartum patients with PD, detailing the improvement in their symptoms.
CASE PRESENTATION: All patients in this study were married, in their thirties,
and diagnosed using the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview as having
PD with agoraphobia. The Panic Disorder Severity Scale (PDSS) was used to
evaluate patients' panic symptoms and their severity. All patients received a
total of 16 weekly 50-min sessions of CBT, and all completed the treatment. All
patients were exceedingly preoccupied with the perception that a "mother must
protect her child," which reinforced the fear that "the continuation of their
perinatal symptoms would prevent them from rearing their children". After
treatment, all participants' panic symptoms were found to have decreased
according to the PDSS, and two no longer met clinical criteria: Chihiro's score
changed from 13 to 3, Beth's PDSS score at baseline from 22 to 6, and Tammy's
score changed from 7 to 1.
CONCLUSIONS: CBT provides a therapeutic effect and is a feasible method for
treating postpartum PD. It is important that therapists prescribe tasks that
patients can perform collaboratively with their children.

PMID: 31439043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25.Neuromodulation of Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity: Past, Present, and Future.


Spike-timing-dependent synaptic plasticity (STDP) is a leading cellular model for
behavioral learning and memory with rich computational properties. However, the
relationship between the millisecond-precision spike timing required for STDP and
the much slower timescales of behavioral learning is not well understood.
Neuromodulation offers an attractive mechanism to connect these different
timescales, and there is now strong experimental evidence that STDP is under
neuromodulatory control by acetylcholine, monoamines, and other signaling
molecules. Here, we review neuromodulation of STDP, the underlying mechanisms,
functional implications, and possible involvement in brain disorders.

PMID: 31437453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. The Prevalence of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder Symptoms and their Psychological 
Correlates amongst Pregnant Clinic Attendees in the Capricorn District, South
Africa.

This study investigated the prevalence of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD)
symptoms and their relationship with pregnancy- related anxiety, perinatal
depression and clinical anger among pregnant black African women in South Africa.
The sample consisted of 206 women attending their antenatal check-ups at the
Mankweng, Nobody, and Rethabile Clinics, and the Mankweng hospital in the
Capricorn District, Limpopo Province. Quantitative data was collected from a
convenience sample, within a cross-sectional survey design. First, the prevalence
of OCD among the women was established. Then Pearson's correlation analysis was
used to establish if there was a linear relationship between the variables of the
study. Variables that were related were then subjected to regression analysis,
seeking to establish if the independent variables, pregnancy-related anxiety,
perinatal depression and clinical anger, together with other pregnancy-related
variables, would predict OCD symptoms. When correlational analysis was conducted,
the patient characteristics of having undergone a medical check-up, and having
previously delivered a live baby generally did not correlate with any of the main
scales measuring OCD symptoms, perinatal depression, pregnancy-related anxiety
and clinical anger (p<0.05). Almost 39.5% of the pregnant women could be
classified as obsessive-compulsive disordered, when using the cut-off score of
36. Furthermore, findings from regression analyses indicated that higher age, the
number of gestation weeks, having previously experienced pregnancy-related
complications, perinatal depression, pregnancy-related anxiety and clinical anger
were variably positive predictors of the Revised version of the
Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory (OCI-R) measured OCD symptoms. The predictors were
specific to each of the symptoms. It can be concluded from the study that there
is a relationship between OCD symptoms and all the independent variables used.

PMID: 31433593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. MENTAL HEALTH AND RELIGION: INTERRELATION AND CHALLENGES IN POST-SOVIET GEORGIA.

Anxiety and depression syndrome (STD) are at the forefront of the world mental
health priority list. To address this problem, a number of instruments and
programs have been developed at both the global and national levels. STD is
associated with a socio-political problem and correlates with external or
internal instability in the country. In such circumstances, a special place is
given to religion. The role of the Church, faith is important in low-or
middle-income countries and depends on the authority of the Church as an
institution, its activities and activity. At the final stage of the study the
recommendations are presented.


PMID: 31418749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28.Decreased theory of mind skills, increased emotion dysregulation and insight
levels in adolescents diagnosed with obsessive compulsive disorder.


Background: An abnormal interaction between cognition and emotion may contribute 
to the development of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Aims: In this study,
we aimed to evaluate theory of mind and emotion regulation skills in adolescents 
diagnosed with OCD. In addition, the results were evaluated in accordance with
patients' insight levels. Methods: This study was conducted with 50 patients, who
were aged between 11 and 16 and who were newly diagnosed with OCD and 50 healthy 
individuals. The Turkish version of the Schedule for Affective Disorders and
Schizophrenia for School Age Children - Present and Lifetime was used to diagnose
OCD and other comorbidities. The Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive
Scale, the Children's Depression Inventory, and the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory
for Children were used for clinical evaluation. The intelligence levels were
assessed using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised Short Form.
Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test was used in patients. The Difficulties in
Emotion Regulation Scale was also used to evaluate the skills of regulating
emotions. Results: Patients with OCD had lower ability with regard to reading
minds in the eyes and emotion regulation than the healthy individuals. Patients
with OCD, who had a poor insight, had more difficulty in reading minds in the
eyes and emotion regulation than those with good insight. Conclusions: This study
supports the idea that OCD is related to deficits in theory of mind and emotion
regulation skills. Thus, further studies are required to confirm the findings of 
this study.

PMID: 31403840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29.GROUPS 4 HEALTH reduces loneliness and social anxiety in adults with
psychological distress: Findings from a randomized controlled trial.


OBJECTIVE: Loneliness is a key public health issue for which various
interventions have been trialed. However, few directly target the core feature of
loneliness-lack of belonging. This is the focus of Groups 4 Health (G4H), a
recently developed intervention that targets the development and maintenance of
social group memberships to support health.
METHOD: To investigate the efficacy of this intervention, a randomized controlled
trial was conducted with participants (N = 120) assigned to G4H or
treatment-as-usual (TAU) by computer software. Assessment of primary (loneliness)
and secondary (depression, social anxiety, general practitioner visits, multiple 
group membership) outcomes was conducted at baseline and 2-month follow-up using 
mixed-model repeated-measures analyses.
RESULTS: G4H produced a greater reduction in loneliness (d = -1.04) and social
anxiety (d = -0.46) than TAU (d = -0.33 and d = 0.03, respectively). G4H was also
associated with fewer general practitioner visits at follow-up (d = -0.33) and a 
stronger sense of belonging to multiple groups (d = 0.52) relative to TAU (d =
0.30 and d = 0.33, respectively). Depression declined significantly in both G4H
(d = -0.63) and TAU (d = -0.34), but follow-up analyses showed this was greater
in G4H among those not receiving adjunct psychopharmacological treatment and
whose symptoms were milder.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest that G4H can be a useful way to treat loneliness
and highlight the importance of attending to group memberships when tackling this
important social challenge. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights
reserved).

PMID: 31403815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30.Implicit Attachment Schemas and Therapy Outcome for Panic Disorder Treated with
Manualized Confrontation Therapy.


BACKGROUND: Different studies have shown that a patient's attachment correlates
with the psychotherapy outcome. However, these findings are based on the
traditional interview and paper and pencil attachment methods. Latency-based
methods like the Implicit Association Test (IAT) have not yet been investigated
in clinical attachment research, specifically in therapy outcome research.
OBJECTIVES: It can be hypothesized that patients with positive schemas of their
mother and their partner may show a better psychotherapeutic outcome than those
with less positive schemas of their mother/partner.
METHOD: A sample of 103 patients suffering from panic disorder with or without
agoraphobia (age 36.73, SD = 10.80), including 56% of patients with affective or 
other anxiety disorders as comorbidities without a personality disorder, based on
the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID-I/II), were treated with a
manualized cognitive-behavioral confrontation therapy. Two IATs (for mother and
partner) were implemented before the therapy (t1). The symptom reduction was
assessed by the Symptom Checklist-90 (SCL-90) and the Beck Depression Inventory
(BDI) with symptoms at t1 and IAT at t1 as predictors of symptoms at t2.
RESULTS: The results confirmed a moderate to high therapeutic effect of the
confrontation therapy. Furthermore, the mother's IAT at t1 predicted the Global
Severity Index (β = 0.20) as well as the Anxiety subscale (β = 0.18) at t2 above 
and beyond the t1 measurement of the criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: Implicit attitudes of the mother predicted the symptom reduction and
a better therapeutic outcome. Relationship aspects with less impact awareness
predicted the therapeutic outcome, even though mostly cognitive-behavioral
techniques were used.

PMID: 31401628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31.Relationships Between Cortically Mediated Attentional Dysfunction and Social
Anxiety, Self-Focused Attention, and External Attention Bias.


Social anxiety disorder is characterized by a marked fear and avoidance of social
situations or a fear of being evaluated by others. Although training for top-down
attentional control has been an effective treatment for social anxiety disorder, 
few studies have demonstrated that individuals with social anxiety have top-down 
attentional dysfunction. This study used dichotic listening (DL) tasks to
investigate the relationship between social anxiety and top-down attentional
control over relevant brain activities. We also investigated relationships
between both social situation-dependent self-focused attention and external
attention bias and situation-independent attentional control. Thirty-six healthy 
participants underwent near-infrared spectroscopy scanning while performing
top-down selective and divided attention DL tasks. Then, they undertook a speech 
task and completed a questionnaire to assess the degrees of their self-focused
attention and external attention bias. The results showed that the degree of
social fear and self-focused attention during the speech task were negatively
correlated with scores on the selective attention task and with the activity of
the left pars opercularis during the selective DL task, which were related to
each other. These results suggest that a relationship exists between social fear,
self-focused attention in a social situation, and top-down selective attentional 
dysfunction as assessed both behaviorally and by brain activity changes.

PMID: 31387453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32.Regular Music Exposure in Juvenile Rats Facilitates Conditioned Fear Extinction
and Reduces Anxiety after Foot Shock in Adulthood.


Music exposure is known to play a positive role in learning and memory and can be
a complementary treatment for anxiety and fear. However, whether juvenile music
exposure affects adult behavior is not known. Two-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats
were exposed to music for 2 hours daily or to background noise (controls) for a
period of 3 weeks. At 60 days of age, rats were subjected to auditory fear
conditioning, fear extinction training, and anxiety-like behavior assessments or 
to anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)
assays. We found that the music-exposed rats showed significantly less freezing
behaviors during fear extinction training and spent more time in the open arm of 
the elevated plus maze after fear conditioning when compared with the control
rats. Moreover, the BDNF levels in the ACC in the music group were significantly 
higher than those of the controls with the fear conditioning session. This result
suggests that music exposure in juvenile rats decreases anxiety-like behaviors,
facilitates fear extinction, and increases BDNF levels in the ACC in adulthood
after a stressful event.

PMID: 31380440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Relationships between depressive symptoms and panic disorder symptoms during
guided internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy for panic disorder.


Aims: The current study explore the relationship between the trajectories of
primary panic disorder symptoms and secondary depressive symptoms during guided
internet-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy for panic disorder. Materials and 
methods: The patients (N=143) were recruited from an ongoing effectiveness study 
in secondary mental health outpatient services in Norway. Weekly self-reported
primary panic disorder symptoms and secondary depressive symptoms were analysed. 
Results: primary panic disorder symptoms and secondary depressive symptoms
improved significantly during the course of treatment, and at six months
follow-up. Parallel process latent growth curve modelling showed that the
trajectory of depressive symptoms and trajectory of panic disorder symptoms were 
significantly related. A supplementary analysis with cross-lagged panel modelling
showed that (1) pre-treatment depressive symptoms predicted a positive effect of 
panic disorder symptoms early in treatment; (2) high early treatment panic
disorder symptoms predicted low depressive symptoms at post-treatment.
Conclusions: Guided ICBT for panic disorder is effective for both primary panic
disorder symptoms and secondary depressive symptoms. Patients with high
pre-treatment secondary depressive symptoms may constitute a vulnerable subgroup.
A high level of panic disorder symptoms early in treatment seems beneficiary for 
depressive symptoms outcome. A time-dependent model may be necessary to describe 
the relationship between PAD symptoms and depressive symptoms during the course
of treatment.

PMID: 31373520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34.Dynamic associations between stressful life events and adolescent internalizing
psychopathology in a multiwave longitudinal study.


Associations between stressful life events (SLEs) and internalizing
psychopathology are complex and bidirectional, involving interactions among
stressors across development to predict psychopathology (i.e., stress
sensitization) and psychopathology predicting greater exposure to SLEs (i.e.,
stress generation). Although stress sensitization and generation theoretical
models inherently focus on within-person effects, most previous research has
compared average levels of stress and psychopathology across individuals in a
sample (i.e., between-person effects). The present study addressed this gap by
investigating stress sensitization and stress generation effects in a multiwave, 
prospective study of SLEs and adolescent depression and anxiety symptoms.
Depression, anxiety, and SLE exposure were assessed every 3 months for 2 years (8
waves of data) in a sample of adolescents (n = 382, aged 11 to 15 at baseline).
Multilevel modeling revealed within-person stress sensitization effects such that
the association between within-person increases in SLEs and depression, but not
anxiety, symptoms were stronger among adolescents who experienced higher average 
levels of SLEs across 2 years. We also observed within-person stress generation
effects, such that adolescents reported a greater number of
dependent-interpersonal SLEs during time periods after experiencing higher levels
of depression at the previous wave than was typical for them. Although no
within-person stress generation effects emerged for anxiety, higher overall
levels of anxiety predicted greater exposure to dependent-interpersonal SLEs. Our
findings extend prior work by demonstrating stress sensitization in predicting
depression following normative forms of SLEs and stress generation effects for
both depression and anxiety using a multilevel modeling approach. Clinical
implications include an individualized approach to interventions. (PsycINFO
Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 31368736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35.A meta-analysis of bias at baseline in RCTs of attention bias modification: No
evidence for dot-probe bias towards threat in clinical anxiety and PTSD.

Considerable effort and funding have been spent on developing Attention Bias
Modification (ABM) as a treatment for anxiety disorders, theorized to exert
therapeutic effects through reduction of a tendency to orient attention toward
threat. However, meta-analytical evidence that clinical anxiety is characterized 
by threat-related attention bias is thin. The largest meta-analysis to date
included dot-probe data for n = 337 clinically anxious individuals. Baseline
measures of biased attention obtained in ABM RCTs form an additional body of data
that has not previously been meta-analyzed. This article presents a meta-analysis
of threat-related dot-probe bias measured at baseline for 1,005 clinically
anxious individuals enrolled in 13 ABM RCTs. Random-effects meta-analysis
indicated no evidence that the mean bias index (BI) differed from zero (k = 13, n
= 1005, mean BI = 1.8 ms, SE = 1.26 ms, p = .144, 95% confidence interval [-0.6, 
4.3]. Additional Bayes factor analyses also supported the point-zero hypothesis
(BF10 = .23), whereas interval-based analysis indicated that mean bias in
clinical anxiety is unlikely to extend beyond the 0 to 5 ms interval. Findings
are discussed with respect to strengths (relatively large samples, possible
bypassing of publication bias), limitations (lack of control comparison,
repurposing data, specificity to dot-probe data), and theoretical and practical
context. We suggest that it should no longer be assumed that clinically anxious
individuals are characterized by selective attention toward threat. Clinically
anxious individuals enrolled in RCTs for Attention Bias Modification are not
characterized by threat-related attention bias at baseline. (PsycINFO Database
Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 31368735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36.The Ankyrin Repeat and Kinase Domain Containing 1 Gene Polymorphism (ANKK1 Taq1A)
and Personality Traits in Addicted Subjects.


The Taq1A polymorphism located in the ANKK1 gene is one of the most widely
studied polymorphisms in regards to the genetics of behavior and addiction. The
aim of our study was to analyze this polymorphism with regard to personality
characteristics and anxiety measured by means of the Personality Inventory-(NEO
Five-Factor Inventory-NEO-FFI) and the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) in
polysubstance addicted subjects. The study group consisted of 600 male
volunteers, including 299 addicted subjects and 301 controls. Psychiatrists
recruited members for both groups. Addiction was diagnosed in the case group. In 
the control group mental illness was excluded. The same psychometric test and
genotyping using the real-time PCR (polymerase chain reaction) method was
performed for both groups. The results were investigated by means of multivariate
analysis of the main effects Multi-factor ANOVA. Significantly higher scores on
the scale of STAI state and Neuroticism and Openness traits, as well as lower
scores on the scales of Extraversion, Agreeability, and Conscientiousness, were
found in the case group subjects, compared to the controls. Differences in
frequency of genotypes and alleles of Taq1A polymorphism between the studied
groups were not found. Multi-factor ANOVA of addicted subjects and control
subjects and the ANKK1 Taq1A variant interaction approximated the statistical
significance for the STAI state. The main effects ANOVA of both subjects' groups 
were found for the STAI state and trait, the Neuroticism scale, the Extraversion 
scale, and the Agreeability scale. The ANKK1 Taq1A main effects approximated the 
statistical significance of the STAI trait. Our study shows not only differences 
in personality traits between addicted and non-addicted subjects, but also the
possible impact of ANKK1 on given traits and on addiction itself.

PMID: 31357601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37.Brain structure changes induced by attention bias modification training.


Attention bias modification (ABM) therapy aims to reduce anxiety by changing
threat-related attention patterns using computerized training tasks. We examined 
changes in brain microstructure following ABM training. Thirty-two participants
were randomly assigned to one of two training conditions: active ABM training
shifting attention away from threat or attention control training involving no
attention modification. Participants completed six lab visits, including five
training sessions and three diffusion tensor imaging scans: immediately before
and after the first training session, and at the end of the training series.
Indices of local and global changes in microstructure and connectivity were
measured. Significant longitudinal differences in fractional anisotropy (FA)
between the active and control training regimens occurred in inferior temporal
cortex. Changes in FA occurred across groups within ventromedial prefrontal
cortex and middle occipital gyrus. These results indicate specific effects of
active ABM on brain structure. Such changes could relate to clinical effects of
ABM.

PMID: 31352029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38.Depressive disorders, anxiety disorders and subjective mental health in common
musculoskeletal diseases: A review.

Globally, musculoskeletal diseases (MSDs) and mental disorders are the leading
causes of disability, but their mutual relationships have been little studied.
The objective of the current review is to summarize the evidence on the
relationships between depressive and anxiety disorders, subjective mental health 
and common MSDs in adults aged 45 years and over. A review of studies published
in English, identified using MEDLINE, was conducted. Search terms included spinal
stenosis, intervertebral disc displacement, osteoarthritis, osteoporosis,
depressive disorder, anxiety disorders, mental health, subjective well-being,
subjective quality of life, life satisfaction and personal satisfaction. A total 
of 287 records were initially identified, and an additional 190 records were
identified from their reference lists. Eight studies were considered eligible and
were, thus, included in the current review. The included studies reported that:
1) major depressive disorder is associated with chronic back pain; 2) anxiety
disorders are associated with cervical or lumbar disc herniation; 3) mood and
anxiety disorders are associated with lower bone mineral density in men; 4) life 
satisfaction and its improvement prevent bone loss in postmenopausal women; and
5) quality of life reduces progressively as the number of osteoporotic fractures 
increases. In conclusion, common MSDs are associated with mental disorders and
subjective mental health in adults aged 45 years or more, but longitudinal
research is needed.

PMID: 31351516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39.PANDAS: What nurses need to know.

Pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorder associated with streptococcal
infections (PANDAS) describes a disorder that develops in children who abruptly
develop neurologic abnormalities following a streptococcal infection. The authors
discuss what is known about this poorly understood disorder and how nurses can
educate and support patients and their families.

PMID: 31343533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40.Prevalence of depression and anxiety and their association with cardiovascular
risk factors in Northeast Brasil primary care patients.

BACKGROUND: Depression and anxiety disorders (DAD) are the most prevalent mental 
health conditions worldwide. Among the adult population served in basic care, it 
is estimated that depression affects about 14.3% of these individuals worldwide, 
and between 21.4% and 31% in Brasil. Anxiety affects up to 33.7% of the
population during their lifetimes.
OBJECTIVES: estimate the prevalence proportions of DAD among patients in a
municipality in Northeast Brasil and study the association between DAD and
cardiovascular risk factors.
METHODS: a cross-sectional study with the medical records of patients from
primary care centers in Jaboatão dos Guararapes, Pernambuco. Patients aged ≥ 18
years and regularly followed-up were included. Exclusion criteria: a history of
traumatic brain injury, alcohol or drug abuse, previous stroke, medical
conditions or medications that mimic DAD symptoms. Subjects were divided into two
groups depending on the presence or absence of DAD, and cardiovascular risk
factors were compared between groups.
RESULTS: A total of 1030 subjects were initially included, of whom 215 (20%) were
excluded. No-DAD subjects had more history of myocardial infarction and
alcoholism. The prevalence of depression was 10.3%, anxiety disorder was 27.1%,
and mixed DAD represented 4.5%. There was a significant association between DAD
and hypertension (OR = 2.11; 95%CI: 1.16 -3.84; p=0.01), obesity (OR = 4.47;
95%CI: 1.74 -11.46; p=0.002), and hyperlipidemia (OR = 3.88; 95%CI: 1.81-8.3;
p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: DAD were associated with an increased risk for arterial hypertension,
obesity, and hyperlipidemia.

PMID: 31340308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41.Psychiatric symptom rate of patients with Diabetes Mellitus: A case control
study.

AIMS: The aim of the study is comparing the psychiatric symptom in Type1 DM, Type
2 DM and controls.
METHODS: The study was designed as case control study and conducted between
September 2011 and April 2012 to the Diabetes Clinic. Age, gender and education
level matched 70 type 1 diabetics, 68 type 2 diabetics and 70 controls included
to the study. SCL-90-R [Symptom Check List-90 (Revised)] test is used for
determining the psychiatric symptom rates.
RESULTS: It was found that the rate of somatization, interpersonal sensitivity,
anger-hostility and additional scales were significantly different in type 1,
type 2 diabetics and controls ((p = 0.023, p = 0.008, p = 0.018 and p = 0.039,
respectively). Compared to control group, being a patient with type 1 or type 2
Diabetes found as a risk factor for somatization, depression, anger-hostility and
additional scales. Moreover being a patient with type 1 DM was found as a risk
factor for having OBS symptoms (p = 0.039) and type 1 DM was protective against
having interpersonal sensitivity symptoms (p = 0.006).
CONCLUSION: In diabetic patient groups, an increase in the rate of psychiatric
symptoms was observed. Therefore a careful psychiatric examination is required in
DM.

PMID: 31336444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42.Mediating role of experiential avoidance in the relationship between anxiety
sensitivity and eating disorder psychopathology: A clinical replication.

OBJECTIVE: This study sought to examine whether anxiety sensitivity was
associated with eating disorder (ED) symptom severity among patients with severe 
EDs, and to determine whether this relationship was mediated by experiential
avoidance.
METHOD: Adolescent and adult females (N = 625) seeking residential ED treatment
completed self-report measures of anxiety sensitivity, experiential avoidance,
and ED psychopathology. Linear regression evaluated the cross-sectional
association between ED symptom severity and three dimensions of anxiety
sensitivity (social, physical, and cognitive). Regression-based mediation
analysis with bootstrapping tested the associations among the three dimensions of
anxiety sensitivity and ED symptom severity through experiential avoidance.
RESULTS: The social dimension of anxiety sensitivity was positively associated
with severity of ED psychopathology. Experiential avoidance mediated this
association.
DISCUSSION: ED symptoms in this sample were more severe among patients who
endorsed greater concern about appearing nervous or anxious to others. The
current results indicate that this relationship was driven by a tendency to avoid
experiences that evoke emotional discomfort. If replicated, these findings
suggest that targeting both social anxiety sensitivity and experiential avoidance
may improve ED treatment outcomes. Further study of the mechanistic relationships
among social anxiety sensitivity, experiential avoidance, and ED psychopathology,
is warranted.

PMID: 31330477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43.Computational modelling reveals contrasting effects on reinforcement learning and
cognitive flexibility in stimulant use disorder and obsessive-compulsive
disorder: remediating effects of dopaminergic D2/3 receptor agents.

Kanen JW(1)(2), Ersche KD(3)(4), Fineberg NA(4)(5)(6), Robbins TW(7
RATIONALE: Disorders of compulsivity such as stimulant use disorder (SUD) and
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are characterised by deficits in behavioural 
flexibility, some of which have been captured using probabilistic reversal
learning (PRL) paradigms.
OBJECTIVES: This study used computational modelling to characterise the
reinforcement learning processes underlying patterns of PRL behaviour observed in
SUD and OCD and to show how the dopamine D2/3 receptor agonist pramipexole and
the D2/3 antagonist amisulpride affected these responses.
METHODS: We applied a hierarchical Bayesian method to PRL data across three
groups: individuals with SUD, OCD, and healthy controls. Participants completed
three sessions where they received placebo, pramipexole, and amisulpride, in a
double-blind placebo-controlled, randomised design. We compared seven models
using a bridge sampling estimate of the marginal likelihood.
RESULTS: Stimulus-bound perseveration, a measure of the degree to which
participants responded to the same stimulus as before irrespective of outcome,
was significantly increased in SUD, but decreased in OCD, compared to controls
(on placebo). Individuals with SUD also exhibited reduced reward-driven learning,
whilst both the SUD and OCD groups showed increased learning from punishment
(nonreward). Pramipexole and amisulpride had similar effects on the control and
OCD groups; both increased punishment-driven learning. These D2/3-modulating
drugs affected the SUD group differently, remediating reward-driven learning and 
reducing aspects of perseverative behaviour, amongst other effects.
CONCLUSIONS: We provide a parsimonious computational account of how perseverative
tendencies and reward- and punishment-driven learning differentially contribute
to PRL in SUD and OCD. D2/3 agents modulated these processes and remediated
deficits in SUD in particular, which may inform therapeutic effects.

PMID: 31324936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44.The prevalence and correlates of social phobia among undergraduate health science
students in Gondar, Gondar Ethiopia.

OBJECTIVE: Social phobia is highly prevalent among university students. The
lowest and highest point prevalence of social phobia among undergraduate
university students was estimated at 7.8% and 80%, respectively. However,
research into social phobia and associated factors among undergraduate university
students in low and middle-income countries has been limited. Therefore, this
study aimed to assess social phobia and associated factors among university
students in Ethiopia to contribute an attempt to ensure optimal care for
students.
RESULT: A total of 503 participants were interviewed with a response rate of
100%. The mean age of the respondents was 22.17 (± 10) years. The prevalence of
social phobia symptoms among students was found to be 31.2% with (95% CI 27.3 to 
35.6%). In the multivariable analysis, poor social support (AOR = 2.8, 95% CI
1.40, 5.60), female sex (AOR = 2.3; 95% CI 1.50, 3.60), 1st-year students
(AOR = 5.5; 95% CI 1.80, 17.20), and coming from a rural residence (AOR = 1.6;
95% CI 1.00, 2.40) were factors significantly associated with social phobia
symptoms.

PMID: 31324266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45.The characteristics of the comorbidity between social anxiety and separation
anxiety disorders in adult patients.

Objective: In the present study, we compared social anxiety disorder (SAD)
patients with (n = 31) and without childhood and adulthood separation anxiety
disorder (SeAD) (n = 50) with respect to suicidal behavior, avoidant personality 
disorder (AvPD), other anxiety disorders (ADs), and major depression as well as
some sociodemographic variables. Methods: In assessment of patients, we used
Structured Clinical Interview for Separation Anxiety Symptoms, childhood and
adulthood Separation Anxiety Symptom Inventories, Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale,
The SCID-II Avoidant Personality Disorder Module, Beck Depression Inventory, and 
Beck Scale for Suicidal Ideation. Results: SAD patients with SeAD had higher
comorbidity rates of AvPD, other lifetime ADs and panic disorder, and current
major depression than those without SeAD. The current scores of SAD, depression, 
and suicide ideation and the mean number of AvPD symptoms were significantly
higher in comorbid group compared to pure SAD subjects. The SAD and SeAD scores
had significant associations with current depression, suicide ideations, and
AvPD. The mean number of AvPD criteria and the current severity of depression
were significantly associated with the comorbidity between SAD and SeAD.
Conclusion: Our findings might indicate that the comorbidity of SeAD with SAD may
increase the risk of the severity of AvPD and current depression.

PMID: 31322453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46.Cross-cultural adaptation, reliability, and validity of the Vertigo symptom
scale-short form in the central Kurdish dialect.

BACKGROUND: Core vestibular symptoms are vague, hard for patients to describe,
and difficult for examiners to quantify. Reliable and validated patient-reported 
outcome measures (PROMs) have obtained acceptance and popularity in the specialty
of vestibular disorders. In Kurdish, there is a critical shortage of such
measures. The aim of this survey was to assess the psychometric properties of a
central Kurdish version (VSS - SF - CK) of the Vertigo Symptom Scale-Short Form
(VSS - SF).
METHODS: The study utilized a regulated process of cross-cultural adaptation to
produce the VSS - SF - CK. We examined its psychometric properties by using a
cross-sectional survey. Owing to a non-normal distribution, both principal axis
factoring and polychoric correlation were used to examine the structure. The
internal consistency of the scales was evaluated using Cronbach's alpha
coefficient (α) and composite reliability. The discriminant validity was
evaluated using the heterotrait-monotrait ratio of correlations (HTMT.85) and the
Fornell-Larcker criterion. To assess convergent validity, the instrument was
correlated with two comparators.
RESULTS: The participants (n = 195) were composed of 165 patients with vestibular
symptoms (mean - age 45 ± 15.8, range 61 years; 56.4% women) and 30 healthy
participants (mean - age 35 ± 18.6; range 52 years; 60% women). Based on the
scree plot, along with other criteria such as Horn's parallel analysis and
minimum average partial, two factors were extracted: vestibular (VSS - V) and
autonomic-anxiety (VSS - AA). Both constructs showed a robust structure in terms 
of adequate loadings and weak cross-loadings. The scales' αs were 0.81, 0.81, and
0.87 for VSS-V, VSS-AA, and the total scale (VSS - T), respectively. Discriminant
validity was established with a value of 0.71 for HTMT (< 0.85). Spearman's
correlation supported the study's hypotheses and confirmed the convergent
validity. Intraclass correlation coefficients revealed high external reliability:
test-retest results were 0.93, 0.94, and 0.97 for VSS-V, VSS - AA, and VSS - T,
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Given a critical shortage in PROMs for the vestibular field, the
psychometric properties of VSS - SF - CK were evaluated. The results were
promising, as they revealed external consistency and construct validity. The
goodness of fit indices showed that the VSS - SF - CK is a reliable and validated
PROM that can be used by clinicians and researchers in the Kurdish-speaking
population.

PMID: 31315639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47.Phenomenology of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: A Methodologically Structured
Overview.

A methodological order is derived from the concept of phenomena and stages of
understanding are developed according to Karl Jaspers. The three levels of
descriptive, genetic and hermeneutic understanding are applied to the study of
obsessive-compulsive disorder. Descriptive understanding essentially reveals a
sense of incompleteness and depersonalization that underlies the experience of
the nonsense of obsessive thoughts and that obsessive-compulsive symptoms do not 
come to an end. Genetic understanding shows particularly by reference to the
trigger situation that sensitivity, undifferentiated affects, affective
hyperarousal and traumatization are important aspects in the development and
maintenance of the obsessive-compulsive disorder. Hermeneutic understanding
brings to light the fear of death in obsessive-compulsive disorder as its
anthropological dimension. The aim of this methodologically structured overview
is to focus on the experience of the obsessive-compulsive patient, to keep
curiosity and interest alive, so that both research and relationship to the
patient is stimulated.

PMID: 31315122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48.Using Interactive 3D Visualisations in Neuropsychiatric Education.


Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) is a neuropsychiatric disorder with a global 
prevalence of 2-3%. OCD can have an enormous impact on the lives of those with
the disorder, with some studies suggesting suicidal ideation is present in over
50% of individuals with OCD, and other data showing a significant number of
individuals attempt suicide. It is therefore important that individuals with OCD 
receive the best possible treatment. A greater understanding of the underlying
pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders among professionals and future
clinicians can lead to improved treatment. However, data suggests that many
students and clinicians experience "neurophobia", a lack of knowledge or
confidence in cases involving the nervous system. In addition, research suggests 
that the relationship many students have with neurological conditions
deteriorates over time, and can persist into practice.If individuals living with 
conditions such as OCD are to receive the best possible treatment, it is crucial 
that those administering care are equipped with a thorough understanding of such 
disorders. While research has shown that the use of interactive 3D models can
improve anatomy education and more specifically neurology education, the efficacy
of using of such models to engage with neuropsychiatric conditions, specifically 
OCD, has not been assessed. This study seeks to address this gap.In this study an
interactive application for Android devices was designed using standardised
software engineering methods in order to improve neuropsychiatry literacy by
empowering self-pace learning through interactive 3D visualisations and
animations of the neural circuitry involved in OCD. A pilot test and a usability 
assessment were conducted among five postgraduate life science students. Findings
relating to user experience were promising, and pre-test vs. post-test evaluation
suggested encouraging outcomes regarding the effectiveness of the application in 
improving the knowledge and understanding of OCD. In short, this study suggests
that interactive 3D visualisations can improve neuropsychiatry education. For
this reason, more efforts should be made to construct similar applications in
order to ensure patients always receive the best possible care. Fig. 2.1 A
diagrammatic representation of the CSTC circuit, based on a similar diagram by
Robertson et al. (2017).
PMID: 31313255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49.Experiences of sexual harassment are associated with high self-esteem and social 
anxiety among adolescent girls.

Introduction: Subjection to sexual harassment among adolescents have been
associated with negative mental health outcomes, such as depression and social
anxiety. Self-esteem and social support may modify these associations. Methods:
The Adolescent Mental Health Cohort 10-year replication data were used. It is a
cross-sectional classroom survey involving 656 girls and 636 boys aged (mean
(sd)) 15.6 (0.4) years and 15.7 (0.4) years, respectively. Subjection to sexual
harassment was elicited with five questions. Depression was measured by the
Beck's 13-item Depression Inventory, social anxiety by the SPIN-Fin Inventory,
self-esteem by Rosenberg's Self-Esteem Scale and social support by the PSSS-R
scale. The data were analysed using cross-tabulations with chi-square statistics 
and logistic regressions. Resutls: Among girls, social anxiety and higher
self-esteem were positively associated with experiencing subjection to sexual
harassment in multivariate models. No statistically significant associations were
detected among boys between experiences of sexual harassment and any of the four 
variables. Conclusion: Experiences of being sexually harassed correlate among
adolescents with high social anxiety but also with high self-esteem. Sexual
harassment among adolescents may partly be explained as inept ways of showing
interest, but it may nevertheless have detrimental effects on the well-being of
the those subjected to it.

PMID: 31311376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50.Perspectives on ICD-11 to understand and improve mental health diagnosis using
expertise by experience (INCLUDE Study): an international qualitative study.

Developed in collaboration with WHO Department of Mental Health and Substance
Abuse, this study (conducted in India, the UK, and the USA) integrated feedback
from mental health service users into the development of the chapter on mental,
behavioural, and neurodevelopmental disorders for ICD-11. The ICD-11 will be used
for health reporting from January, 2022. As a reporting standard and diagnostic
classification system, ICD-11 will be highly influential by informing policy,
clinical practice, and research that affect mental health service users. We
report here the first study to systematically seek and collate service user
perspectives on a major classification and diagnostic guideline. Focus groups
were used to collect feedback on five diagnoses: depressive episode, generalised 
anxiety disorder, schizophrenia, bipolar type 1 disorder, and personality
disorder. Participants were given the official draft diagnostic guidelines and a 
parallel lay translation. Data were then thematically analysed, forming the basis
of co-produced recommendations for WHO, which included features that could be
added or revised to better reflect lived experience and changes to language that 
was confusing or objectionable to service users. The findings indicated that an
accessible lay language version of the ICD-11 could be beneficial for service
users and their supporters.

PMID: 31296444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51.Resilience as a Protective Factor for Depressive Mood and Anxiety among Korean
Employees.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigate resilience as a protective factor for
depressive mood and anxiety among Korean employees.
METHODS: Participants were employees of eight private and local government
organizations in Korea, aged 19 to 65 years. A self-report questionnaire that
included items on resilience, job stress, levels of depression and anxiety, and
socio-demographic factors, was administered to 1,079 Korean employees, with 1,076
valid responses. We performed hierarchical linear regression analyses with the
levels of depression and anxiety scores as dependent variables.
RESULTS: Being women and having a high level of job stress were associated with
greater depressive mood and anxiety. In contrast, resilience was negatively
related to depressive mood and anxiety, after adjusting for demographic variables
and the level of job stress. Among the five factors for resilience, "support" and
"hardiness" were protective factors for depressive mood and anxiety after
adjusting for demographic variables and the level of job stress.
CONCLUSION: Based on the results of the current study, we suggest that focusing
on the resilience of employees, especially on "support" and "hardiness," factors 
as well as developing and engaging in interventions that increase resilience in
the workplace, can protect against depressive mood and anxiety, especially for
those with high levels of job stress.

PMID: 31293112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

52.Is Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) Val66Met Polymorphism Associated with
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder? A Meta-Analysis.

BACKGROUND: Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) polymorphism plays an
important role in neural survival and was proposed to be related to
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Genetic association studies of the BDNF
Val66Met polymorphism (rs6265) in OCD have produced inconsistent results. A
meta-analysis of studies was conducted to compare the frequency of the BDNF
Val66Met variant between cases with OCD and age-matched controls.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Electronic databases were searched for eligible articles in
English and ten studies on the association of the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism with
OCD were analysed.
RESULTS: A total of ten studies involving 2306 cases with OCD and 4968 healthy
controls were included. Findings indicated that the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism
was not associated with OCD. But there was a marginally significant effect of the
BDNF Val66Met variant on OCD in different ethnicity.
CONCLUSION: Findings from this meta-analytic investigation of published
literature provide little support for the Val66Met variant of BDNF as a predictor
of OCD. Future well-powered agnostic genome-wide association studies with more
refined phenotype are needed to clarify genetic influences on OCD.

PMID: 31291217  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53.Treatment of the obsessive-compulsive and bipolar disorders comorbidity:
pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic evaluation.

Introduction: The comorbidity between obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and
bipolar disorders (BDs) is a frequent and severe condition characterized by a
chronic course, high suicidal risk and tendency towards chronicity and treatment 
non-response. It represents a real challenge to psychiatrists, while requiring a 
careful and appropriate therapeutic management consisting in the combination of
serotonergic antidepressants (ADs), such as serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs),
with mood stabilizers. This combination, like any other, raises the problems
related to drug interactions that may lead to pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic
changes, resulting in the modification of the pharmacologic effect and safety
profile of a given compound. Areas covered: The aim of the present paper was to
review the literature on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic changes
resulting from the interactions of the different drugs prescribed in the OCD-BD
comorbidity. Expert opinion: The literature data on pharmacokinetic and
pharmacodynamic changes due to interactions of drugs commonly prescribed in the
treatment of the OCD-BD comorbidity are extremely limited, and the information is
inferred by findings gathered in psychiatric patients suffering from other
disorders. This represents a gap in psychopharmacology that should be filled by
specific studies on this important topic.

PMID: 31271537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54.Bidirectional Association between First-Episode Panic Disorder and Major
Depressive Disorder in a Nationwide General Population Survey in Korea.

BACKGROUND: Panic disorder (PD) and major depressive disorder (MDD) can occur
concurrently, despite different clinical manifestations. Because MDD and PD
patients tend to have more complicated conditions, understanding the
co-occurrence and pattern of these conditions is important. Here, we investigated
the influence of PD and MDD on each other, with respect to time interval.
METHODS: Data from three national representative surveys were pooled (total
18,807 respondents), and the age of onset (AOO) of PD and MDD was analyzed. We
performed Kaplan-Meier analysis to estimate separate survival functions, using
the AOO of MDD and PD as the outcome. To understand the temporal effect of other 
disorders, we used a Cox proportional hazard model to estimate the hazard ratios 
for the onset of MDD/PD with other comorbidities as time-dependent covariates.
RESULTS: PD elevated the risk of subsequent MDD by 1.5-fold, whereas MDD elevated
the risk of subsequent PD by 3.8-fold. The effect of such an elevation risk was
significant for up to 2 years.
CONCLUSION: The results revealed a bidirectional relationship between MDD and PD.
Each disease represents a risk of a subsequent occurrence of the other, which
lasts for a considerable duration.

PMID: 31269543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55.Cyberbullying Victimization and Perpetration in Adolescents with High-Functioning
Autism Spectrum Disorder: Correlations with Depression, Anxiety, and Suicidality.

The present study examined the associations between cyberbullying involvement and
sociodemographic characteristics, autistic social impairment and
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) 
symptoms in 219 adolescents with high-functioning autism spectrum disorder (ASD).
Moreover, the associations between cyberbullying involvement and depression,
anxiety, and suicidality were also examined. Adolescents self-reported higher
rates of being a victim or perpetrator of cyberbullying than were reported by
their parents. Increased age and had more severe ODD symptoms were significantly 
associated with being victims or perpetrators of cyberbullying. Being a victim
but not a perpetrator of cyberbullying was significantly associated with
depression, anxiety, and suicidality. Cyberbullying victimization and
perpetration should be routinely surveyed in adolescents with high-functioning
ASD.

PMID: 31267285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56.Human evaluation of amphibian species: a comparison of disgust and beauty.

Animals can evoke a wide range of emotions helping us to choose a quick and
appropriate reaction towards them: approach or avoidance in general. This work
has focused on disgust evoked by amphibians in humans as well as perceived
beauty. Due to the high morphological variability of recent amphibian taxa, we
examined humans' cognitive categorisation of 101 amphibian photos and the effect 
of stimuli characteristics on disgust evaluation or beauty perception of
individual groups/species. We also explored how respondents' characteristics,
e.g. gender, age and disgust sensitivity (DS-R) influence the disgust and beauty 
evaluation of picture stimuli on a 7-point Likert scale. The scores of disgust
and beauty evaluation were strongly negatively correlated, representing the
opposite ends of a single axis, further referred to as the index of preference.
The most preferred amphibians belonged to anurans, whereas the least preferred
ones were mostly worm-like, legless and small-eyed caecilians. Additional
analyses of morphologically diverse anurans showed that species with a round body
shape, short forelegs, small eyes, warts, pink and grey colouration, or dark and 
dull colouration were perceived as disgusting or ugly. The effect of gender and
age were only marginal; however, people with higher disgust sensitivity rated
amphibians as more disgusting and less beautiful, which might support the
hypothesis of a possible disgust involvement in animal fears and phobias. This
topic has implications not only for the nature conservation decisions of globally
endangered amphibians but also for understanding the evolution of disgust and its
generalisation to harmless animals.

PMID: 31263997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57.Faces Anxiety Scale as a screening measure of preoperative anxiety: Validation
and diagnostic accuracy study.

AIM: The aim of the study was to examine validity and diagnostic accuracy of the 
single-item Faces Anxiety Scale for the purposes of preoperative anxiety
screening.
BACKGROUND: Anxiety is common in most patients expecting surgery interfering with
patients' recovery. Valid and reliable measures for situations with limited time 
for assessment are needed.
DESIGN: A descriptive cross-sectional design was used to collect the data from
both self-report and rating instruments.
METHODS: We enrolled 90 consecutive patients admitted for surgery in a
university-affiliated hospital from January 2013 to June 2013. Patients were
administered the anxiety state subscale of the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety
Inventory and the anxiety subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, 
and they were presented the Faces Anxiety Scale. At the same time, patients'
anxiety was rated by a nurse.
RESULTS: The correlations among scores of self-report instruments, rating scale, 
and the Faces Anxiety Scale were high and statistically significant. Of the Faces
Anxiety Scale cut-off scores tested, the cut-off score > 2 has an optimal
combination of sensitivity and specificity.
CONCLUSION: The Faces Anxiety Scale is valid and easy to administer. The scale is
useful in settings where fast and precise screening is necessary.

PMID: 31261437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58.Assessing the Relationship between Anxiety and Revision Surgery following
Autologous Breast Reconstruction.

BACKGROUND: Revision procedures address contour irregularities and aesthetic
concerns following autologous breast reconstruction. Mental health diagnoses are 
known to influence patient satisfaction with reconstruction. The authors aimed to
identify oncologic, reconstructive, and demographic factors, including mental
health diagnoses, associated with the number of revisions after autologous breast
reconstruction.
METHODS: The medical records of all adult women undergoing abdominal free
flap-based breast reconstruction at a major academic institution between 2011 and
2016 were reviewed. Multivariate logistic regression was used to identify factors
associated with receipt of revisions. Negative binomial regression was used to
identify characteristics associated with number of revisions received.
RESULTS: Of 272 patients identified, 55.2 percent received one revision, 23.2
percent received two revisions, and 10.3 percent received three or more revisions
after autologous breast reconstruction (median, one; range, zero to five). After 
adjustment on multivariate analysis, anxiety (OR, 4.34; p = 0.016) and bilateral 
reconstruction (OR, 3.10; p = 0.017) were associated with receipt of any
revisions; other oncologic and reconstructive factors including breast cancer
stage, receipt of radiation therapy, and type or timing of free flap
reconstruction were not associated with revisions. Using univariate negative
binomial regression, anxiety (incidence rate ratio, 1.34; p = 0.006), Caucasian
race (incidence rate ratio, 1.24; p = 0.02), and bilateral reconstruction
(incidence rate ratio, 1.39; p = 0.04) were predictive of increased numbers of
revisions received. After stepwise selection on multivariate analysis, anxiety
remained the only significant predictor of increased numbers of revisions.
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative anxiety significantly influences the number of
revisions after autologous breast reconstruction. Further research is necessary
to better understand the interplay among mental health, patient preference, and
outcomes in breast reconstruction.
CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Risk, III.

PMID: 31246794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59.Emotional problems and health-related quality of life: population-based study.

PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to evaluate the influence of emotional 
problems on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) according to the type of
emotional problem, degree of limitation, and perceived control of the problem
with treatment.
METHOD: A population-based cross-sectional study with probabilistic stratified
cluster sampling was conducted in 2014 and 2015 in the city of Campinas, Brazil. 
A total of 2145 individuals aged 18 years or older participated in the study.
HRQoL was evaluated using the SF-36® questionnaire. The dependent variables were 
the score of the eight scales of the SF-36®. The independent variables were
self-perceived emotional problems, type of emotional problem (according to ICD
10), degree of limitation, and perceived control of the problem with treatment.
Mean scores were calculated and regression coefficients were adjusted for sex,
age, number of health problems, and chronic diseases using multiple linear
regression analysis.
RESULTS: The prevalence of emotional problems was 32.7%. Among the individuals
with a problem, the mean SF-36® scores were lower on all domains. Regarding the
type of emotional problem, a complaint of depression exerted a stronger negative 
impact on HRQoL scores than anxiety. Moreover, a greater degree of limitation
caused by the problem led to lower mean SF-36® scores. The negative impact on
HRQoL was substantially greater among those who did not have the problem under
control.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, the findings underscore the importance of the
prevention and control of emotional problems with the aim of reducing the impact 
on HRQoL.

PMID: 31240538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60.Association of Temporomandibular Joint Osseous Changes with Anxiety, Depression, 
and Limitation of Mandibular Function in Elderly Vietnamese.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed (1) to determine the prevalence of anxiety,
depression, and TMJ osseous changes in elderly Vietnamese according to sex and
residence, and (2) to investigate the association of temporomandibular joint
(TMJ) osseous changes with anxiety, depression, and limitation of mandibular
function.
METHODS: Elderly people living in Danang, Vietnam were recruited. Participants
were screened for anxiety and depression using the self-reported 7-item
Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD-7) and 9-item Patient Health
Questionnaire (PHQ-9), respectively. Participants then self-rated the limitation 
of their mandibular function using the 20-item Jaw Functional Limitation Scale
(JFLS-20) questionnaire. TMJ osseous changes (erosion, flattening, osteophytes,
and sclerosis) were evaluated using digital orthopantomography.
RESULTS: Of 179 participants aged 65 to 74 years, 17.9% and 35.8% had anxiety and
depression symptoms, respectively. Compared with urban residents, rural residents
had higher prevalence of anxiety (23.3% vs 12.4%, p = 0.009) and depression
(46.62% vs 24.7%, p = 0.019). The prevalence of TMJ osseous changes was 58.1%.
The most common TMJ osseous change was flattening (41.3%), followed by erosion
(34.6%), sclerosis (16.2%), and osteophytes (7.8%). Participants with or without 
TMJ osseous changes were comparable in terms of GAD-7 score, PHQ-9 score, and
JFLS-20 score and sub-scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Anxiety and depression and TMJ osseous changes were prevalent in
elderly Vietnamese. Rural residents had higher prevalence of anxiety and
depression than urban residents. TMJ osseous changes were not associated with
anxiety, depression, or limitation of mandibular function.


PMID: 31237253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61.Attentional Bias Modification Training for Patients with Generalised Anxiety
Disorder: a Randomised Controlled Study.


BACKGROUND: Hypervigilance to threat is a mechanism contributing to generalised
anxiety disorder (GAD). Although attentional bias modification training (ABMT) is
designed to reduce attention to threat, its use as a mechanistically focused
psychological intervention for GAD has not been examined. We aimed to investigate
the effect of a brief ABMT on reducing anxiety, worry, and attentional bias in
outpatients with GAD, and to determine the association between change in
attentional bias and changes in anxiety and worry.
METHODS: This was a parallel-group, double-blind, randomised controlled trial.
Patients with GAD who had no changes after medication treatment for the past 8
weeks were randomly allocated to either the treatment or control group to receive
4 weekly sessions of ABMT or sham ABMT, respectively, in addition to standard
care. Anxiety was measured using the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale and the
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory - trait anxiety subscale. Pathological worry was
measured using the Penn State Worry Questionnaire. Attentional bias was measured 
using the bias score.
RESULTS: A total of 33 participants were allocated to the treatment (n = 17) or
control (n = 16) groups. Both groups reported a significant reduction in levels
of anxiety and worry after intervention, but the reduction was not greater after 
ABMT than sham ABMT. There was no significant change in attentional bias after
ABMT; change in attentional bias was not correlated to changes in anxiety and
worry.
CONCLUSION: The efficacy of the brief ABMT as a mechanistically focused treatment
for GAD was not supported. The small sample size and short duration of treatment 
may have rendered the results inconclusive.


PMID: 31237250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62.Associations between Gastro-oesophageal Reflux Disease, Generalised Anxiety
Disorder, Major Depressive Episodes, and Healthcare Utilisation: a
Community-based Study.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the prevalence and comorbidity of gastro-oesophageal reflux
disease (GORD) with generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) and major depressive
episodes (MDE) in a general population using DSM-IV, and to evaluate the
associations between these conditions and healthcare utilisation.
METHODS: A random population-based telephone survey was conducted to record
frequency of GORD symptoms, symptoms of GAD and MDE based on DSM-IV, and
healthcare utilisation.
RESULTS: Of 2011 respondents, 4.2% had weekly GORD and 13.9% had monthly GORD,
whereas 3.8% reported GAD and 12.4% reported MDE. Those with monthly GORD had
higher risk of GAD (p = 0.01) and MDE (p < 0.001). GORD symptom frequency was
independently correlated with MDE and GAD in a dose-response manner. The number
of psychiatric diagnoses was independently correlated with GORD. GORD symptom
frequency, GAD, and MDE were correlated with consultation frequency. GORD symptom
frequency was corelated with high investigation expenditure.
CONCLUSION: GORD had a strong dose-response relationship with GAD and MDE in a
Hong Kong population. Excessive healthcare utilisation should alert clinicians to
the risk of psychiatric comorbidity.


PMID: 31237245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63.Current State of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation and its use in Psychiatry.

INTRODUCTION: Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a noninvasive brain
stimulation technique that could be used as a therapeutic intervention in order
to treat psychiatric disorders.
AIM: Reviewing the effectiveness of TMS in the modulation of cognitive functions 
and also detailing its potential applications in psychiatric treatments.
DEVELOPMENT: TMS has been traditionally used for the treatment of a great variety
of neurological or psychiatric conditions by modulating the activity in brain
areas and networks. Therapeutic benefit has been found in depressive disorders,
anxiety, schizophrenia, addiction, and neurodevelopmental disorders as well as in
brain damage and neurodegenerative disorders. Moreover, TMS is a technique which 
offers great tolerance and can be used as complement with other therapies.
However, it is not easy to define an optimal treatment for every pathology: the
parameters of stimulation are variable, and its effects at the cellular level of 
the nervous system are not well-known.
CONCLUSION: While it is true that TMS provides many therapeutic benefits, it
requires further investigation. It is necessary to detail the action mechanism of
the stimulation and the long-term side effects, if any. This information would
allow the design of specific treatment protocols for different psychiatric
disorders.


PMID: 31233209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64.Prevalence of anxiety in patients with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator:
measurement equivalence of the HADS-A and the STAI-S.

PURPOSE: The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS-A) and State-Trait
Anxiety Inventory (STAI-S) are popular instruments for assessing anxiety and are 
considered interchangeable, although little is known about their equivalence.
Hence, we examined whether the two instruments are (i) equivalent with respect to
determining the prevalence of probable clinical anxiety levels and (ii) reflect
variation on a common anxiety attribute.
METHODS: Score and construct concordance were evaluated using equipercentile
equating and bifactor modeling, respectively. Secondary data from the WEBCARE
trial and the MIDAS study were used for the current study, where patients
implanted with a first-time implantable cardioverter defibrillator completed both
the HADS-A and the STAI-S within 10 days post implant.
RESULTS: Data from 710 patients were included in the analyses. Results showed
that the STAI-S produced a higher prevalence rate than the HADS-A (39% vs. 23%). 
A crosswalk table was generated with equivalent scores and cutoffs for the HADS-A
and STAI-S, respectively. Bifactoring suggested that HADS-A and STAI-S largely
tapped into the same generic anxiety attributes.
CONCLUSIONS: STAI-S and HADS-A reflect a common anxiety attribute, but using the 
recommended cutoff scores on the respective measures show very different
prevalence rates and would classify patients as anxious with the STAI-S who would
not be identified as such with the HADS-A. Clinicians and researchers should be
aware of the inequivalence when using these measures for screening and
determining the prevalence of probable clinical anxiety levels.

PMID: 31230167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65.Family mealtime negativity and adolescent binge-eating: A replication and
extension study in a community sample.

OBJECTIVE: To explore differences in family mealtime characteristics and family
mealtime emotions among adolescents who report engaging in binge-eating in
comparison to those who do not.
METHOD: Adolescents (N = 495) recruited from UK schools/colleges reported on
their family mealtime frequency and atmosphere, family mealtime emotions,
anxiety, depression and eating psychopathology.
RESULTS: No significant differences were found between adolescents who reported
binge-eating (n = 32 boys; n = 82 girls) and those who did not (n = 196 boys;
n = 185 girls) on family mealtime frequency or mealtime atmosphere scores.
However, boys and girls who binge-eat reported significantly lower levels of
positive family mealtime emotions and significantly higher levels of family
mealtime anxiety and anger (girls only), compared with their peers who did not
report binge-eating.
DISCUSSION: Adolescents who binge-eat experience significantly greater negative
emotional responses to family mealtimes than their peers. Further research should
explore why these experiences are more negative, including broader familial
factors and interactions.

PMID: 31226668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66.The relationships between perfectionism, anxiety and depression across time in
paediatric eating disorders.

OBJECTIVE: The aim was to examine in children and adolescents with eating
disorders the relationship between perfectionism, anxiety, and depression at
intake assessment and whether intake perfectionism was significantly associated
with anxiety and depression at 6 months and 12 months post-intake review.
METHOD: Participants were 167 females aged 10-17 years (M = 14.6, SD = 1.20) with
a diagnosis of an eating disorder, who were assessed at intake to an eating
disorders treatment program to receive either inpatient, day or outpatient care. 
Participants were re-assessed at 6 and 12 months post-intake review.
RESULTS: At intake and 6 and 12 months post intake review perfectionism had a
significant positive correlation with anxiety and depression. Perfectionism did
not however determine change in anxiety and depression over time at 6 and
12 months post-intake review.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite perfectionism being significantly associated with anxiety
and depression, further research is required to explore the relationships between
perfectionism, anxiety and depression over time.

PMID: 31226667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67.Sexual orientation differences in psychological treatment outcomes for depression
and anxiety: National cohort study.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigates whether sexual minority patients have poorer
treatment outcomes than heterosexual patients in England's Improving Access to
Psychological Therapies (IAPT) services. These services provide evidence-based
psychological interventions for people with depression or anxiety.
METHOD: National routinely collected data were analyzed for a cohort who had
attended at least 2 treatment sessions and were discharged between April
2013-March, 2015. Depression, anxiety and functional impairment were compared for
85,831 women (83,482 [97.2%] heterosexual; 1,285 [1.5%] lesbian; 1,064 [1.2%]
bisexual) and 47,092 men (44,969 [95.5%] heterosexual; 1,734 [3.7%] gay; 389
[0.8%] bisexual). Linear and logistic models were fitted adjusting for baseline
scores, and sociodemographic and treatment characteristics.
RESULTS: Compared to heterosexual women, lesbian and bisexual women had higher
final-session severity for depression, anxiety, and functional impairment and
increased risk of not attaining reliable recovery in depression/anxiety or
functioning (aORs 1.3-1.4) and reliable improvement in depression/anxiety or
functioning (aORs 1.2-1.3). Compared to heterosexual and gay men, bisexual men
had higher final-session severity for depression, anxiety, and functioning and
increased risk of not attaining reliable recovery for depression/anxiety or
functioning (aORs 1.5-1.7) and reliable improvement in depression/anxiety or
functioning (aORs 1.3-1.4). Gay and heterosexual men did not differ on treatment 
outcomes. Racial minority lesbian/gay or bisexual patients did not have
significantly different outcomes to their White lesbian/gay or bisexual
counterparts.
CONCLUSIONS: The reasons for treatment outcome inequities for bisexual patients
and lesbian women (e.g., 30-70% increased risk of not recovering) need
investigation. Health services should address these inequalities. (PsycINFO
Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 31219292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68.Reward-related attentional capture is associated with severity of addictive and
obsessive-compulsive behaviors.

A cue that signals reward can capture attention and elicit approach behaviors in 
people and animals. The current study examined whether attentional capture by
reward-related cues is associated with severity of addiction-related and
obsessive-compulsive behaviors. Participants were recruited via Mechanical Turk
and included 143 adults (Mage = 34 years, SD = 8.5; 43% female) who had endorsed 
at least 1 addiction-related or obsessive-compulsive behavior in the past month. 
All assessment components were delivered via the Internet and included
questionnaires to assess severity of compulsivity-related problems across
addiction-related and obsessive-compulsive behaviors, as well as a visual search 
task to measure reward-related attentional capture. Reward-related attentional
capture was associated with severity of compulsivity, transdiagnostically. These 
findings have implications for understanding the mechanisms that underlie
compulsive behaviors and suggest that reward-related attentional capture is a
promising transdiagnostic cognitive risk marker for compulsivity. (PsycINFO
Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 31219264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69.CLINICAL-DIAGNOSTIC PECULIARITIES OF WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME CAUSED BY CONSUMPTION OF
HOME-MADE DRUG SYNTHESIZED FROM EPHEDRA PLANT "VINT".

According to the above-mentioned, the study aiming at description of
clinico-diasgnostical peculiarities of withdrawal states caused by consumption of
Ephedra plant home-made drug - "Vint" has been conducted. 50 patients 20-65 of
age, hospitalized with ephedrone withdrawal effect (withdrawal effect caused by
consumption of the drug prepared from Ephedra plant or classic "Vint"), were
involved in the study conducted at Narcological Clinic "Neogeni". The patients
were divided into two main groups: in the first group were united the patients
with the withdrawal effect caused by consumption of the drug prepared from
Ephedra plant and in the second group -"classical pharmaceutical "Vint"
consumers. Patients were selected and diagnosed according to the ICD-10 criteria.
The study was conducted on the basis of informed consent, keeping with the
bioethical principles. The withdrawal state, particularly expression of its
individual symptoms has been evaluated in patients of both groups. Intensity of
withdrawal state was assessed before treatment and after 2 weeks of
stationary/inpatient treatment according to Amphetamine Withdrawal Assessment
Scale (Amphetamine Withdrawal Assessment Scale, Drug & Alcohol Services Council, 
SA, 2002). The affective anxieties in patients of the study group were assessed
on the base of Beck Anxiety Inventory scale/scoring and Spielberger State-Trait
Anxiety Inventory (STAI). The craving intensity was measured according to the
Brief Substance Craving Scale. As a result of the study, it was concluded that
after termination consuming the Ephedra plant-produced preparation "Vint" the
patients had developed: more severe withdrawal state and relatively less -
moderate and mild withdrawal states. The rate of craving for drug, depression,
personal and situational anxiety were high as well. The Patients of the first
group developed a relatively severe withdrawal state, the rates of depression and
craving were high as well; as for the indicators of individual and situational
anxiety no substantial changes were revealed. 2-week complex treatment resulted
in expressed positive dynamics in regards to the above-mentioned disorders. It is
noteworthy to mention that after treatment no suicidal ideation or psychotic
disorders were observed in any patient. The severity of withdrawal state, as well
as the indicators of depression and anxiety were significantly decreased.


PMID: 31215894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70.The Fixed Mindset of Anxiety Predicts Future Distress: A Longitudinal Study.

Mindsets, or beliefs about the malleability of self-attributes such as
intelligence and personality, have been linked to a wide range of outcomes in
educational and social psychology. There has been recent interest in exploring
this construct in clinical psychological contexts. To that end, research has
shown that the fixed mindset of anxiety-the belief that anxiety is fixed and
unchangeable-is related to a variety of psychological distress symptoms, emotion 
regulation strategies, and treatment preferences. One outstanding question is
whether the fixed mindset of anxiety predicts future psychological symptoms. To
address this question, the current longitudinal study assessed weekly distress
and anxiety mindset across 5 weeks. We found that fixed mindset of anxiety is
predictive of future weekly distress, even after controlling for the previous
week's distress, sex, socioeconomic status, baseline depression symptoms, and
presence of psychiatric diagnosis. These findings add evidence to an emerging
conceptual framework in which the fixed mindset of anxiety represents an
important risk factor for the onset of future psychological problems.

PMID: 31208681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71.Evaluation of the social phobia scale and social interaction anxiety scale as
assessments of performance and interaction anxiety.

The DSM-5 classification of performance anxiety as distinct from social anxiety
underlines the need for specific measurement instruments. The Social Phobia Scale
(SPS) and Social Interaction Anxiety Scale (SIAS) are widely used assessments of 
performance and general interaction anxiety, yet few studies have examined their 
criterion validity using actual performance and interaction stressors. The
current study is the first to assess the scales' convergent and discriminant
validity using multimodal anxiety indices including psychophysiological
reactivity, which is a key characterizing feature of performance anxiety.
Ninety-three individuals completed the SPS and SIAS and participated in
performance and interaction challenges. Anxiety response was assessed with
criterion measures of self-reported anxiety, observer-rated anxiety, heart rate
and skin conductance. Both scales were moderately correlated with self-report and
observer-rated anxiety (r's = 0.21-0.62) and weakly correlated with physiological
measures (r's = 0.07-0.35), generally supporting convergent criterion validity.
Discriminant criterion validity was not supported, however, with the SIAS and SPS
showing similar correlations with each criterion measure for both social
challenges. These findings suggest the SIAS and SPS are valid instruments for the
assessment of social anxiety but may not be suitable for the specific measurement
of performance and interaction anxiety.

PMID: 31207859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72.Dopaminergic drug treatment remediates exaggerated cingulate prediction error
responses in obsessive-compulsive disorder.

RATIONALE: Patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have been found to
show exaggerated error responses and prediction error learning signals in a
variety of EEG and fMRI tasks, with data converging on the anterior cingulate
cortex as a key locus of dysfunction. Considerable evidence has linked prediction
error processing to dopaminergic function.
OBJECTIVE: In this study, we investigate potential dopaminergic dysfunction
during reward processing in the context of OCD.
METHODS: We studied OCD patients (n = 18) and controls (n = 18) whilst they
learned probabilistic associations between abstract stimuli and monetary rewards 
in the fMRI scanner involving administration (on separate visits) of a dopamine
receptor agonist, pramipexole 0.5 mg; a dopamine receptor antagonist, amisulpride
400 mg; and placebo. We fitted a Q-learning computational model to fMRI
prediction error responses; group differences were examined in anterior cingulate
and nucleus accumbens regions of interest.
RESULTS: There were no significant group, drug, or interaction effects in the
number of correct choices; computational modeling suggested a marginally
significant difference in learning rates between groups (p = 0.089, partial
ƞ2 = 0.1). In the imaging results, there was a significant interaction of group
by drug (p = 0.013, partial ƞ2 = 0.13). OCD patients showed abnormally strong
cingulate signaling of prediction errors during omission of an expected reward,
with unexpected reduction by both pramipexole and amisulpride (p = 0.014, partial
ƞ2 = 0.26, 1-β error probability = 0.94). Exaggerated cingulate prediction error 
signaling to omitted reward in placebo was related to trait subjective difficulty
in self-regulating behavior in OCD.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data support cingulate dysfunction during reward processing in
OCD, and bidirectional remediation by dopaminergic modulation, suggesting that
exaggerated cingulate error signals in OCD may be of dopaminergic origin. The
results help to illuminate the mechanisms through which dopamine receptor
antagonists achieve therapeutic benefit in OCD. Further research is needed to
disentangle the different functions of dopamine receptor agonists and antagonists
during bidirectional modulation of cingulate activation.

PMID: 31201476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73.New WHO prevalence estimates of mental disorders in conflict settings: a
systematic review and meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: Existing WHO estimates of the prevalence of mental disorders in
emergency settings are more than a decade old and do not reflect modern methods
to gather existing data and derive estimates. We sought to update WHO estimates
for the prevalence of mental disorders in conflict-affected settings and
calculate the burden per 1000 population.
METHODS: In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we updated a previous
systematic review by searching MEDLINE (PubMed), PsycINFO, and Embase for studies
published between Jan 1, 2000, and Aug 9, 2017, on the prevalence of depression, 
anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, bipolar disorder, and
schizophrenia. We also searched the grey literature, such as government reports, 
conference proceedings, and dissertations, to source additional data, and we
searched datasets from existing literature reviews of the global prevalence of
depression and anxiety and reference lists from the studies that were identified.
We applied the Guidelines for Accurate and Transparent Health Estimates Reporting
and used Bayesian meta-regression techniques that adjust for predictors of mental
disorders to calculate new point prevalence estimates with 95% uncertainty
intervals (UIs) in settings that had experienced conflict less than 10 years
previously.
FINDINGS: We estimated that the prevalence of mental disorders (depression,
anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia) was
22·1% (95% UI 18·8-25·7) at any point in time in the conflict-affected
populations assessed. The mean comorbidity-adjusted, age-standardised point
prevalence was 13·0% (95% UI 10·3-16·2) for mild forms of depression, anxiety,
and post-traumatic stress disorder and 4·0% (95% UI 2·9-5·5) for moderate forms. 
The mean comorbidity-adjusted, age-standardised point prevalence for severe
disorders (schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, severe depression, severe anxiety,
and severe post-traumatic stress disorder) was 5·1% (95% UI 4·0-6·5). As only two
studies provided epidemiological data for psychosis in conflict-affected
populations, existing Global Burden of Disease Study estimates for schizophrenia 
and bipolar disorder were applied in these estimates for conflict-affected
populations.
INTERPRETATION: The burden of mental disorders is high in conflict-affected
populations. Given the large numbers of people in need and the humanitarian
imperative to reduce suffering, there is an urgent need to implement scalable
mental health interventions to address this burden.
FUNDING: WHO; Queensland Department of Health, Australia; and Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation.

PMID: 31200992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74.The relationships between pain beliefs and kinesiophobia and clinical parameters 
in Turkish patients with chronic knee osteoarthritis: a cross-sectional study.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relationships of pain beliefs with
clinical/functional status and kinesiophobia in patients with knee
osteoarthritis.
Methods: The descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted at the Department of
Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation, Acibadem Hospitals Group, Istanbul, Turkey, 
between May 2015 and April 2016, and comprised chronic patients who were either
overweight or obese. Patients were evaluated using visual analogue scale, Western
Ontario and McMaster University Osteoarthritis Index, Lequesne Index (LI), Tampa 
Scale for Kinesiophobia and the Pain Beliefs Questionnaire. Statistical analysis 
was done using SPSS 15. .
RESULTS: Of the 78 patients, there were 10(13%) males, 68(87%) females with an
overall mean age of 56.09}11.79 years and mean body mass index of 29.3}4.91.
There were moderate positive correlations among kinesiophobia, pain and
functional scores, while organic pain beliefs had a moderate positive correlation
with body mass index scores and positive weak correlations with
clinical/functional status scores and kinesiophobia (p<0.05 each). There were no 
associations between the organic subscale and psychological subscale of the Pain 
Beliefs Questionnaire (p>0.05)..
CONCLUSIONS: Possible fear of movement and pain belief should be taken into
consideration in the management of patients with knee osteoarthritis.


PMID: 31189289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75.Anxiety Levels of Children with Developmental Disorders in Japan: Based on
Reports Provided by Parents.

A large number of children with developmental disorders like autism spectrum
disorder (ASD), learning disabilities, and attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder have high anxiety. It has also been shown that the high anxiety has
harmful effects on them, directly and indirectly. In this study, we conducted a
survey on community samples on the level of anxiety of children with
developmental disorders in Japan that had hardly been studied so far, and
compared them with the anxiety in children in a general population sample in
previous studies. Analysis on the 203 participants showed that children with
developmental disorders have high anxiety as compared to children as in previous 
studies in other countries. Particularly children with ASD had a higher anxiety
compared with children with developmental disorders without ASD.

PMID: 31177370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76.Obsessions are strongly related to eating disorder symptoms in anorexia nervosa
and atypical anorexia nervosa.

Anorexia nervosa (AN) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are highly
comorbid. However, little research has examined which specific
cognitive-behavioral aspects (e.g., checking, obsessing) of OCD are most relevant
in those with AN. Furthermore, there is no research examining aspects of OCD in
Atypical AN. The current two studies (N = 139 and N = 115 individuals diagnosed
with AN/Atypical AN) examined a) which aspects of OCD were most related to AN
symptomatology and b) if there were differences in OCD between individuals
diagnosed with AN vs Atypical AN. We found that obsessing was most related to AN 
symptoms. We also found that there were no substantial significant differences
between AN and Atypical AN. These findings add to the literature suggesting
minimal differences between AN and Atypical AN, specifically regarding OCD
symptomatology. These findings clarify that obsessions (rather than compulsions) 
may be the specific aspect of OCD most warranting treatment intervention in AN
and Atypical AN.

PMID: 31176948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77.Lay-people's knowledge about toxicology and its principles in eight European
countries.

The procedures of risk assessment related to substances consumed or used by
consumers (e.g., food additives, cleaning products) are highly complex and there 
exists some controversy between experts in regards to the uncertainty linked to
it. This contributes to the well documented divergence in experts and
lay-people's judgments, particularly for synthetic or man-made chemicals. By
investigating lay-people's knowledge gaps and misconceptions related to
toxicology, we hope to contribute to facilitating the communication between
experts and the lay public. For this, a large-scale survey measuring knowledge of
toxicological principles, trust in regulators, the irrational fear of chemicals
and health concern was distributed in eight European countries (Total: N = 5631).
Results suggest that large gaps exist regarding people's knowledge of
toxicological principles and that a lack of knowledge is significantly associated
with higher levels of chemophobia. Particular attention for future communication 
efforts should be placed on the stigma associated with the terminology,
principles of dose-response associations and the comparability of substances of
natural and synthetic origin.

PMID: 31175914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78.Features of clinical manifestations of disease and psychological status of
adolescents with bronchial asthma of various levels of control and the influence 
of risk factors.

OBJECTIVE: Introduction: The problem of psycho-emotional state of patients with
asthma is of great importance from a mental and social point of view. The aim: To
find out the factors which influence mental state of adolescents, to determine
features of clinical manifestations and of mental status in patients with
bronchial asthma, depending on degree of its control.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and methods:108 adolescents aged 11-17, ill with 
BA, of various levels of control. Luscher color test was used to determine the
child's mental status. Anxiety score was assessed by Spielberger-Hanin
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory. Depressive status and depression severity were
evaluated by HDRS.
RESULTS: Results: The patients with UC BA reported unsatisfactory living
conditions significantly more often compared to those with C BA and the children 
with PC BA compared to those with C BA (р<0.01). Patients with PC BA and UC BA
were found to have significantly increased proneness to conflict, marked
emotional tension and lability, mood swings, increased anxiety, vulnerability and
sensitivity, as compared to those with C BA. Significantly lower state anxiety
was revealed in the patients with C BA as compared to those with PC BA (p =
0.004) and UC BA (p = 0.0001). Significantly lower mean values of depression
values were detected in the patients with C BA compared to those with UC BA
(p=0.011) and PC BA (p=0.0015).
CONCLUSION: Conclusions: The major factors influencing the psychological status
of adolescents were: unsatisfactory living conditions, psychic and physical
punishment, stress, heavy workload etc. The patients with BA developed
psychological disorders under the influence of those factors.


PMID: 31175775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79.Dynamics of the prevalence of affective and neurotic disorders on the example of 
the Poltava region for 2014-2018.

OBJECTIVE: Introduction: Recently, the situation regarding the mental health of
the world population has a tendency to deteriorate and is one of the most serious
problems, which faced all countries of the world and in particular the European
region (ER), since at one or another period of life problems of mental health
arise at least in every fourth person of the ER, and Ukraine is no exception. ATO
in Ukraine was started in 2014. We investigated the level of hospitalized mental 
morbidity in the residents of the city of Poltava since 2014. The aim: To study
hospitalized mental morbidity of the population of the Poltava region since 2014.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and methods: Studied the incidence and prevalence
of depressive disorders in Poltava and Poltava regions according to the new WHO
classification. ICD-11. According to the report form 10 "Report on the Disease of
Persons with Mental Disorders and Behavior", the following classes of depression 
were studied: F30-39 Mood Disorders (Affective Disorders, F40-48 - Neurotic and
Somatic Disorders, F43.0 - Severe Stress and Compliance).
RESULTS: Review: Affective disorders are a set of psychiatric disorders, also
called mood disorders. The main types of affective disorders are depression,
bipolar disorder, and anxiety disorder. Symptoms vary by individual and can range
from mild to severe.
CONCLUSION: Conclusions: The rate of growth of morbidity of affective disorder
has decreased, compared with 2014, by -14% and neurotic disorders has increased
3,2%.


PMID: 31175756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80.
Pathogenetic peculiarities of neuroendocrine and metabolic disorders in patients 
with acne associated with chronic stress.

OBJECTIVE: Introduction: Acne is a chronic relapsing skin condition with
multifactorial nature associated with disorders of sebaceous glands activity,
psycho-emotional disorders and slow response to treatment. The aim: To study a
pathogenic role of chronic stress and certain metabolic and neuroendocrine
disorders in the development of acne in women depending on the duration of the
disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and methods: A total of 119 women with acne were 
examined. Index insulin resistance (іndex HOMA), serum cortisol and prolactin,
level of Reactivity-Personal Anxiety and Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI)
was determined.
RESULTS: Results: Possible changes in serum cortisol level depending on duration 
of the disease (increased in women with duration of the disease less than 1 year 
and decreased in women with duration of the disease 1-5 years), increased index
of serum prolactin and HOMA, with more significant changes in women with duration
of the disease 1-5 years. The DLQI was determined in all examined patients. An
increased level of anxiety, characterized by higher levels of personal anxiety,
was also observed, especially in a group of women with duration of the disease
1-5 years.
CONCLUSION: Conclusion: The changes in certain neuroendocrine and metabolic
indices, which are the markers of chronic stress, worsening of life quality and
significant levels of reactivity and personal anxiety, were observed in women
with acne. A strong and moderate correlational relationship between the nature of
changes in the abovementioned indices and duration of the disease was detected.


PMID: 31175732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81.Comparison of Quality of Life, Depression, Anxiety, Suicide, Social Anxiety and
Obsessive-Compulsive Symptoms Between Adolescents with Acne Receiving
Isotretinoin and Antibiotics: A Prospective, Non-randomised, Open-Label Study.

BACKGROUND: The effects of isotretinoin on suicide, social anxiety and
obsessive-compulsive symptoms in adolescents with acne have not been sufficiently
investigated.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the quality of life, depression, anxiety,
suicide, social anxiety, and obsessive-compulsive symptoms of adolescents
receiving systemic isotretinoin and antibiotic treatments at baseline and at
3 months.
METHODS: The study included a total of 102 adolescents using isotretinoin
(n = 60) and antibiotics (n = 42). The Acne Quality of Life Scale (AQLS),
Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Suicide Probability Scale (SPS),
Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale (LSAS), and Maudsley Obsessive-Compulsive Question
List (MOCQL) were administered to both groups at baseline and at 3 months. In
order to exclude patients with comorbid psychiatric disorders, the patients were 
evaluated at the beginning of the study with the Schedule for Affective Disorders
and Schizophrenia for School-Age Children-Present and Lifetime Version
(K-SADS-PL).
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in the mean age, gender
distribution, educational level, and family history of mental illness between the
two groups. There were significant decreases in the Global Acne Grading System
scores, visual analogue scale scores, AQLS scores, total and subscale scores of
LSAS, and total and subscale scores of MOCQL at 3 months compared with baseline
in both groups. However, there were no significant changes in the total and
subscale scores of HADS and total and subscale scores of SPS at 3 months compared
with baseline in both groups.
CONCLUSION: We found that neither isotretinoin nor antibiotic treatment affected 
the levels of depression, anxiety, and suicide in acne patients. Moreover, both
isotretinoin and antibiotic treatment were shown to improve the quality of life, 
social anxiety, and obsessive-compulsive symptoms in acne patients. However,
clinicians should be careful about psychiatric side effects in patients using
isotretinoin. Further studies with a larger number of cases and with a longer
follow-up period are needed to investigate the complex effects of isotretinoin on
the central nervous system.

PMID: 31175639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82.Changes in rejection and psychological control during parent-child interactions
following CBT for children's anxiety disorder.

This study examined changes in mothers' and fathers' rejection and psychological 
control during parent-child interactions after cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT)
for children's anxiety disorders. We studied whether family CBT reduced rejection
(vs. warmth) and psychological control (vs. autonomy-granting) more than child
CBT, and whether parents own anxiety disorders resulted in smaller decreases in
these parenting behaviors. Participants were 128 clinically referred children and
adolescents (52 boys; Mage = 12.4, SDage = 2.7) with anxiety disorders and their 
parents, randomly assigned to either family CBT (n = 64) or child CBT (n = 64).
The Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule was used to assess children's and
parents' anxiety disorders. Before and after treatment, parents' rejection and
psychological control toward their child was rated during conflict and anxiety
discussions of mother-child dyads, father-child dyads, and mother-father-child
triads. As expected, during dyadic and triadic interactions, mothers' and
fathers' rejection toward their child decreased after child and family CBT.
Unexpectedly, during triadic conflict interactions, mothers, after child CBT and 
family CBT, as well as fathers, after child CBT, displayed increased
psychological control. During triadic anxiety interactions, only mothers, after
child CBT, showed increased psychological control. Changes in parenting did not
depend on whether or not parents had anxiety disorders themselves. Thus, CBT for 
anxiety-disordered children can successfully reduce parents' rejection. The
unexpected findings of increased psychological control after treatment,
particularly by mothers in the presence of the father, suggests potential
benefits of mothers' psychological control with anxious children. (PsycINFO
Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 31169393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83.Early Life Stress and High FKBP5 Interact to Increase Anxiety-Like Symptoms
through Altered AKT Signaling in the Dorsal Hippocampus.

Clinical studies show a significant association of childhood adversities and
FK506-binding protein 5 (FKBP5) polymorphisms on increasing the susceptibility
for neuropsychiatric disorders. However, the mechanisms by which early life
stress (ELS) influences FKBP5 actions have not been fully elucidated. We
hypothesized that interactions between ELS and high FKBP5 induce phenotypic
changes that correspond to underlying molecular changes in the brain. To test
this, we exposed newborn mice overexpressing human FKBP5 in the forebrain,
rTgFKBP5, to ELS using a maternal separation. Two months after ELS, we observed
that ELS increased anxiety levels, specifically in mice overexpressing FKBP5, an 
effect that was more pronounced in females. Biochemically, Protein kinase B (AKT)
phosphorylation was reduced in the dorsal hippocampus in rTgFKBP5 mice, which
demonstrates that significant molecular changes occur as a result of ELS when
FKBP5 levels are altered. Taken together, our results have a significant impact
on our understanding mechanisms underlying the gene x environment interaction
showing that anxiety and AKT signaling in the hippocampus were affected by the
combination of ELS and FKBP5. An increased knowledge of the molecular mechanisms 
underlying these interactions may help determine if FKBP5 could be an effective
target for the treatment of anxiety and other mood-related illnesses.

PMID: 31167373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84.Description of suicide ideation among older adults and a psychological profile: a
cross-sectional study in Turkey.

This study investigates the suicidal ideation and the possible causes for
suicidal behaviour in the elderly. Subjects were 150 patients aged 65 and older
who were evaluated using the sociodemographic data collection forms, Geriatric
Depression Scale (GDS), Suicidal Ideation Scale (SIS), Reasons for Living
Inventory (RLI), and Beck Hopelessness Scale (BHS). Of 150 patients, 72.7% were
women and 27.3% were men, ages ranged from 65 to 88 years. Suicidal ideation was 
noted in 30.7% of patients. When the mean of BHS total score between patients
with and without suicidal ideation and the mean of BHS subscale's feelings and
expectations regarding the future and loss of motivation and hope in terms of
subscales were evaluated between the groups with and without suicidal ideation,
the scores had a significant difference. When RLI was evaluated in terms of total
scores, the suicidal ideation mean score was 243.74 ± 32.28, while the
non-suicidal ideation mean score was 267.27 ± 24.36. There was a significant
relationship between the two groups. We found low level of education, low level
of reasons for living and higher psychiatric morbidity (generalized anxiety
disorder and comorbid depressive disorder) in with suicidal ideation in the
elderly.

PMID: 31166519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85.Changes in the Long-Term Psychodynamic Group Psychotherapy in Family Members of
Persons with Psychotic Disorders.

BACKGROUND: The experience gained in working with psychotic persons as well as
the findings from the literature have pointed to the need for systematic
inclusion of the families of affected individuals, facilitating the creation of
partnership within treatment, and to the need for a better understanding of
family dynamics that reflects on the psychological conditions of the patients.
AIM: The aim of this paper is to explore the changes in self-esteem and
loneliness of group members during the therapeutic process and whether the use of
more mature defence mechanisms is the answer to the treatment of group
psychotherapy.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We followed three groups of 30 members (18 women and 12
men). At the beginning of inclusion in group psychodynamic psychotherapy and
after 18 months of psychotherapy, members completed the following questionnaires:
Rosenberg Self-esteem Scale, short version of UCLA Loneliness Scale (ULS-7) and
Lifestyle Questionnaire (LSI).
RESULTS: The research results show a statistically significant increase in
self-esteem, a significant reduction in loneliness, and significantly reduced use
of defence mechanisms after 18 months of group psychotherapy.
CONCLUSION: Research findings confirmed positive changes in family members who
gradually feel better and safer, with less anxiety and fear, all positively
reflecting on the family atmosphere, the ability to accept and understand the
sick member, as well as his better quality of recovery.


PMID: 31158120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86.The evaluation of metacognitive beliefs and emotion recognition in panic disorder
and generalized anxiety disorder: effects on symptoms and comparison with healthy
control.

Background: The impairments in metacognitive functions and emotion recognition
are considered as liable factors in anxiety disorders. Aims: The better
understanding of these cognitive abilities might lead to develop more accurate
treatment methods for patients who suffer from anxiety. Methods: Forty-four
patients with panic disorder (PD), 37 individuals with generalized anxiety
disorder (GAD) and 44 healthy control (HC) were participated in our study.
Metacognition questionnaire-30 (MCQ-30), Reading The Mind From The Eyes Test and 
symptom severity tests were administered. Results: Statistical analyses estimated
the dysfunctional metacognitive beliefs and disrupted emotion recognition in
patients relative to HC. The 'need to control thoughts' aspect of metacognitive
beliefs was accounted for symptom severity in GAD. Improper metacognitive beliefs
were significantly predicted the PD and GAD. In addition, impoverished emotion
recognition predicted the GAD. Conclusions: Our study revealed the role of
inconvenient metacognitive beliefs and distorted emotion recognition in PD and
GAD. These findings might facilitate the treatment management in cognitive
therapies of anxiety disorders via pointing out more reasonable targets across
improper cognitive fields.

PMID: 31157577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87.Group-based Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Anxiety Disorder in Children with
Autism Spectrum Disorder: a feasibility study.

Purpose: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) includes core symptoms that affect
general and social development. High risk of developing comorbid disorders such
as anxiety is prominent. Up to 60% of children with ASD suffer from anxiety
disorders which can negatively influence educational, social and general
development together with quality of life. This study is the first to investigate
the feasibility of the manualised cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) group
programme 'Cool Kids ASD' for anxiety adapted for children with ASD in a general 
hospital setting. Methods: Nine children, aged 9-13 years, with ASD and anxiety
recruited from a public child psychiatric health clinic were enrolled in the
study. Outcome measures were collected from both child and parent pre- and
post-treatment and at 3-month follow-up and included scores from a
semi-structured anxiety interview, together with questionnaires on anxiety
symptoms, life interference, children's automatic thoughts and satisfaction with 
the programme. Results: Eight out of nine families found the programme useful and
would recommend it to other families in a similar situation. Six families
attended all 12 sessions in the programme, two missed one session and one family 
only managed to attend eight sessions. At follow-up, five children were free of
all anxiety diagnoses and a further two out of the nine children no longer met
the criteria for their primary anxiety diagnosis. Conclusions: This study
suggests that the transition of the group programme 'Cool Kids ASD' from
University Clinics to standard child psychiatric clinical settings is feasible.
Further randomised studies are needed to confirm the efficacy of the programme in
a larger sample.

PMID: 31156001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88.An examination of pain, disability, and the psychological correlates of Chiari
Malformation pre- and post-surgical correction.

BACKGROUND: 50% of patients with Chiari Malformation (CM) report a history of
depression; however, rates of other psychological symptoms are unknown. Further, 
it is unclear whether surgical correction impacts pain, disability, and
psychological symptoms.
OBJECTIVE: /Hypothesis: We examined rates of symptoms in a nationwide sample of
CM patients who had (n = 639) and had not (n = 551) undergone surgical
correction. We hypothesized lower symptom severity in the latter group.
METHODS: Participants completed assessments and submitted pre-surgical MRI scans 
online (n = 286). Informed by the Fear-Avoidance Model of pain, we controlled for
psychological symptoms when assessing pain/disability, and pain/disability when
assessing psychological symptoms.
RESULTS: Overall, high rates of depression (44% moderate-severe) and anxiety (60%
moderate-severe) were reported. Groups (surgery vs. no-surgery) did not differ in
the proportion of patients meeting cutoff scores for current disability; however,
the no-surgery group was more likely to meet cutoffs for anxiety (χ2 = 11.26,
p < .05), stress (χ2 = 14.63, p < .01) and health anxiety (χ2 = 4.63, p < .05).
The surgery group reported lower levels of continuous affective pain F(1,
1065) = 10.28, p < .001), anxiety F(1,1026) = 4.96, p < .05) and stress F(1,
978) = 5.67, p < .05) although effect sizes were small (η2s ranging from 0.010 to
0.006, Cohen's D ranging from 0.17 to 0.25).
CONCLUSION: CM patients experience high rates of psychological symptomatology
regardless of surgical status, suggesting that all CM patients may benefit from
evidence-based interventions to address anxiety and depression.

PMID: 31147250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89.Trauma-related psychiatric and behavioral conditions are uniquely associated with
sustained attention dysfunction.

OBJECTIVE: It is increasingly recognized that trauma victims, particularly
Veterans, have co-occurring psychological and physical conditions that impact
cognition, especially the domains of sustained attention and executive
functioning. Although previous work has generally attempted to isolate the unique
cognitive effects of common combat-related comorbidities, less work has been done
to examine how these conditions co-occur, and whether unique cognitive signatures
accompany certain clinical combinations.
METHOD: To address this gap, we examined how several deployment-related
conditions were associated with performance on a well-validated measure of
sustained attention (i.e., gradual onset continuous performance task [gradCPT])
and a battery of standard neuropsychological measures in 123 Veterans from the
Translational Research Center for TBI and Stress Disorders. Initially, a
Principal component analysis was conducted to investigate how comorbid conditions
grouped together.
RESULTS: Several sustained attention measures from the gradCPT were
differentially associated with four unique combinations of trauma-related
pathology. Specifically, a somatic component representing the combination of
current pain, sleep disturbance, and mild traumatic brain injury was associated
with a higher rate of failures of attentional engagement. On the other hand, a
comorbid posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and mood disorder component
(moodPTSD), as well as a substance use disorder component, were associated with
higher rates of inhibitory control failures. Increased attentional instability
was associated with moodPTSD as well as an anxiety disorder component. In
contrast, the cognitive effects of deployment-related trauma were not observed on
standard neuropsychological measures.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that unique combinations of trauma-related
pathology have dissociable effects on sustained attentional control. (PsycINFO
Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 31144830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90.The mental health effects of visa insecurity for refugees and people seeking
asylum: a latent class analysis.

OBJECTIVES: Current regional conflicts are creating a surge in forced migration, 
and heightened visa restrictions are increasingly being applied. The current
study aimed to examine the relationship between visa insecurity and psychological
outcomes within a large clinical sample of refugees and people seeking asylum in 
Australia.
METHODS: The sample comprised 781 clients (53.9% male, 16-93 years) attending a
clinic for trauma survivors. Country of birth was most frequently identified as
Afghanistan (18.1%), Iraq (15.3%) and Iran (15.1%). The Hopkins Symptom Checklist
was administered at admission.
RESULTS: Latent class analyses identified four groups varying in severity of
symptoms, namely very high (16.1%), high (38.1%), moderate (31.5%), and low
(14.3%). People with insecure visa status were at least five times more likely to
report high (OR = 5.86, p < 0.001) or very high (OR = 5.27, p < 0.01) depression 
and anxiety symptoms than those with permanent residency. Women were almost twice
as likely to report high (OR = 1.96 p < 0.01) or very high (OR = 1.96, p < 0.05) 
symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that temporary visas play a significant role in
psychological distress and that timely immigration processing has important
implications for health outcomes.

PMID: 31139848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91.Family Accommodation in Autism Spectrum Disorder.

Family accommodation occurs frequently among families of children with OCD and
anxiety disorders, with higher levels of accommodation repeatedly associated with
greater symptom severity, lower functioning, and poorer treatment outcomes for
children. This is the first examination of family accommodation of restricted and
repetitive behaviors (RRBs) in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD).
Parents of children with ASD (N = 86) completed questionnaires assessing their
children's RRBs and parental accommodation of these symptoms. Most participants
(80%) reported engaging in accommodation at least once a month and family
accommodation was significantly positively correlated with RRB severity. These
results suggest accommodation of RRBs follows a pattern similar to that reported 
in obsessive compulsive and anxiety disorders, and highlight avenues for
potential parent-based interventions.

PMID: 31134428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92.Barriers to recruitment when conducting a commissioned randomised controlled
trial of medication versus psychological therapy for generalised anxiety
disorder: some lessons learned.

BACKGROUND: Poor recruitment is the most common reason for premature
discontinuation of randomised controlled trials (RCTs). An RCT of medication
versus psychological therapy for generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) was
discontinued prematurely by the UK National Institute of Health Research funders 
because of recruitment failure. In order to inform future research studies, this 
article explores the reasons for poor recruitment and aspects which could have
been improved.
METHODS: The trial recruited participants via psychological well-being
practitioners (PWPs) employed within local Improving Assess to Psychological
Therapies (IAPT) services at four sites in England. For this study, we initially 
examined the recruitment data to identify reasons why potential participants were
reluctant to participate in the trial. We then investigated reasons the PWPs did 
not identify more potential participants. Finally, we performed retrospective
analyses of a computerised clinical records system used by the IAPT services in
this study. These analyses aimed to establish the number of potential
participants who had not been approached about the trial as well as whether there
were additional factors affecting the numbers of people who might be eligible to 
take part. Data were obtained for all patients assessed during the period from
the date on which recruitment commenced until the closure of the trial.
RESULTS: Three quarters of those patients identified as possibly suitable for the
trial declined to take part; the great majority did so because they did not want 
to be randomly assigned to receive medication. Our retrospective database
analyses showed that only around 12% of potentially eligible patients for the
trial were identified by the PWPs at the pilot sites. The results also indicated 
that only 5% of those noted at entry to the IAPT services to have a score of at
least 10 on the GAD-7 questionnaire (a self-completed questionnaire with high
sensitivity and specificity for GAD) would have been eligible for the trial.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that poor recruitment to RCTs can be
significantly affected by participants' treatment preferences and by factors
influencing the recruiting clinicians. It may also be important not to include
too many restrictions on inclusion criteria for pragmatic trials aiming for
generalisable results.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISCRTN14845583 . Registration date: 5 February 2015.

PMID: 31126337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93.Childhood generalized specific phobia as an early marker of internalizing
psychopathology across the lifespan: results from the World Mental Health
Surveys.


BACKGROUND: Specific phobia (SP) is a relatively common disorder associated with 
high levels of psychiatric comorbidity. Because of its early onset, SP may be a
useful early marker of internalizing psychopathology, especially if generalized
to multiple situations. This study aimed to evaluate the association of childhood
generalized SP with comorbid internalizing disorders.
METHODS: We conducted retrospective analyses of the cross-sectional
population-based World Mental Health Surveys using the Composite International
Diagnostic Interview. Outcomes were lifetime prevalence, age of onset, and
persistence of internalizing disorders; past-month disability; lifetime
suicidality; and 12-month serious mental illness. Logistic and linear regressions
were used to assess the association of these outcomes with the number of subtypes
of childhood-onset (< 13 years) SP.
RESULTS: Among 123,628 respondents from 25 countries, retrospectively reported
prevalence of childhood SP was 5.9%, 56% of whom reported one, 25% two, 10%
three, and 8% four or more subtypes. Lifetime prevalence of internalizing
disorders increased from 18.2% among those without childhood SP to 46.3% among
those with one and 75.6% those with 4+ subtypes (OR = 2.4, 95% CI 2.3-2.5,
p < 0.001). Twelve-month persistence of lifetime internalizing comorbidity at
interview increased from 47.9% among those without childhood SP to 59.0% and
79.1% among those with 1 and 4+ subtypes (OR = 1.4, 95% CI 1.4-1.5, p < 0.001).
Respondents with 4+ subtypes also reported significantly more disability
(3.5 days out of role in the past month) than those without childhood SP
(1.1 days) or with only 1 subtype (1.8 days) (B = 0.56, SE 0.06, p < 0.001) and a
much higher rate of lifetime suicide attempts (16.8%) than those without
childhood SP (2.0%) or with only 1 subtype (6.5%) (OR = 1.7, 95% CI 1.7-1.8,
p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This large international study shows that childhood-onset
generalized SP is related to adverse outcomes in the internalizing domain
throughout the life course. Comorbidity, persistence, and severity of
internalizing disorders all increased with the number of childhood SP subtypes.
Although our study cannot establish whether SP is causally associated with these 
poor outcomes or whether other factors, such as a shared underlying
vulnerability, explain the association, our findings clearly show that childhood 
generalized SP identifies an important target group for early intervention.

PMID: 31122269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94.Structural and functional neuroimaging studies in generalized anxiety disorder: a
systematic review.

OBJECTIVES: Brain imaging studies carried out in patients suffering from
generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) have contributed to better characterize the
pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this disorder. The present study reviews
the available functional and structural brain imaging evidence on GAD, and
suggests further strategies for investigations in this field.
METHODS: A systematic literature review was performed in PubMed, PsycINFO, and
Google Scholar, aiming to identify original research evaluating GAD patients with
the use of structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging as well as
diffusion tensor imaging.
RESULTS: The available studies have shown impairments in ventrolateral and
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate, posterior parietal regions,
and amygdala in both pediatric and adult GAD patients, mostly in the right
hemisphere. However, the literature is often tentative, given that most studies
have employed small samples and included patients with comorbidities or in
current use of various medications. Finally, different methodological aspects,
such as the type of imaging equipment used, also complicate the generalizability 
of the findings.
CONCLUSIONS: Longitudinal neuroimaging studies with larger samples of both
juvenile and adult GAD patients, as well as at risk individuals and unaffected
relatives, should be carried out in order to shed light on the specific
biological signature of GAD.

PMID: 31116259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95.Assessing anxiety symptoms in children: Agreement between parents and children.

Assessment of anxiety disorders in children is a difficult process and requires
the use of multiple resources of information. Such resources may come from
children, parents, and educators and they also require the use of multiple types 
of diagnostic tools, like structured and semi-structured clinical interviews, as 
well as self-report questionnaires. Previous research shows that anxiety symptoms
ratings of different informants are to some degree correlated (low to moderate
agreement) but nonetheless also often show clear discrepancies. Important
variables may affect the degree of child-parent agreement. The present study
focused on child's gender and age possible impact. The aim of the present study
was to examine the agreement between children's and parents' reports on
self-reported questionnaires for anxiety symptoms. 431 children from 4th to 6th
grade of elementary school and their parents participated in the study. 190 were 
boys and 241 were girls. Both children and their parents responded to Spence
Children's Anxiety Scale (SCAS) (child's and parent's version correspondingly).
Relations between children's and parents' reports concerning anxiety symptoms
were examined by calculation Pearson's correlation coefficients. The results
showed that there was a medium but statistically important positive correlation
between children's and parents' reports on SCAS total score (r=0.50, p<0.01).
Concerning SCAS subscales results supported that higher correlations were those
reported for Separation Anxiety (r=0.53, p<0.01) and Fear of Physical Injury
(r=0.55, p<0.01). Concerning gender differences the present study found that
correlation coefficients for girls were higher than for boys in SCAS total score 
(r=0.57 and r=0.39 correspondingly, p<0.01). Correlations according to age showed
that the highest correlation coefficients were found in comparatively older
children (r=0.34, r=0.54 και r=0.63, p<0.01 for 4th, 5th and 6th Grade). The
latter underlies that in the process of assessing and diagnosing anxiety
disorders in children, it is both necessary and important to gather information
from multiple sources, especially in cases of younger children.

PMID: 31115353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96.Current and emerging pharmacotherapy for the treatment of adult attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Introduction: ADHD is characterized by a developmentally inappropriate level of
inattentiveness, impulsivity and/or hyperactivity. In adults, the disorder is
frequently accompanied by Emotional Dysregulation (ED), associated to a variety
of related psychiatric comorbidities, complicating its recognition and treatment 
management. Areas covered: This paper reviews randomized active
comparator-controlled or placebo-controlled trials evaluating the use of
pharmacotherapy in adults with ADHD and ED, other neurodevelopmental disorders,
Bipolar Disorder (BD) and Anxiety Disorders (ADs). When controlled data are
unavailable, the authors have included open-label and observational studies.
Expert opinion: ED in adult patients with ADHD is a very common and impairing
problem that can be treated with stimulants or atomoxetine. ADHD studies in
adults with other neurodevelopment disorders are scarce; stimulants seem to be
the most effective and safe drugs in treating ADHD symptoms, without worsening
the core features of other neurodevelopmental disorders. In patients with ADHD
and comorbid BD, the treatment of BD alone may result in residual symptoms of
ADHD. Patients should be treated hierarchically: BD should be treated first,
while ADHD should be treated combining ADHD medications and mood stabilizers
after mood stabilization. The available evidence for treating patients with ADHD 
and comorbid ADs in adults supports the idea of an anti-anxiety/ADHD-specific
treatment association.

PMID: 31112441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97.Preliminary evidence of biased attentional mechanisms and reward processing in
adults with obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Individuals with obsessive-compulsive-disorder (OCD) may have difficulties in
using feedback from rewarding and punishing experiences to optimally guide future
decisions. The current aim was to examine how adults with OCD use associative
learning feedback to direct attention toward learned stimuli when the
action-outcome contingency for those stimuli has changed. Participants first
learned to select high-probability (over low-probability) rewarding stimuli and
low-probability (over high-probability) loss stimuli. Participants then saw these
stimuli as the second of two targets in a task where available attentional
resources were limited. Recognition of learned stimuli during limited attention
was driven by previously learned stimulus-response associations instead of an
attentional benefit toward the most favorable action-outcome associations
(reward-associated stimuli), as demonstrated in prior research with non-OCD
adults. The current evidence supports the hypothesis that individuals with OCD
have difficulties shifting from learned stimulus-response associations when the
response-outcome contingencies change.

PMID: 31112410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98.Metacognitive therapy versus exposure and response prevention for
obsessive-compulsive disorder: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.

BACKGROUND: The recommended psychological treatment of choice for
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is exposure with response prevention (ERP).
However, recovery rates are relatively modest, so better treatments are needed.
This superiority study aims to explore the relative efficacy of metacognitive
therapy (MCT), a new form of cognitive therapy based on the metacognitive model
of OCD.
DESIGN AND METHOD: In a randomized controlled trial, we will compare MCT with
ERP. One hundred patients diagnosed with OCD will be recruited in an outpatient
mental health center in Rotterdam (the Netherlands). The primary outcome measure 
is OCD severity, measured by the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS). 
Data are assessed at baseline, after treatment, and at 6 and 30 months follow-up.
DISCUSSION: By comparing MCT with ERP we hope to provide an indication whether
MCT is efficacious in the treatment of OCD and, if so, whether it has the
potential to be more efficacious than the current "gold standard" psychological
treatment for OCD, ERP.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Dutch Trial Register, NTR4855 . Registered on 21 October
2014.

PMID: 31109349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99.Increasing access to low-intensity interventions for childhood anxiety: A pilot
study of a guided self-help program for Scandinavian parents.

Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) is an effective treatment for child anxiety.
However, access to treatment is limited. It has been suggested that low-intensity
formats of parent-delivered CBT may improve access to treatment. Our aim was to
develop and pilot-test the acceptability and effect of a low-intensity
therapist-guided parent-delivered group program for anxious children (age
7-12 years) adjusted to the Scandinavian culture. The program required 1.5 hours 
of therapist-time per family. Mothers, fathers and children reported on revised
child anxiety and depression scale (RCADS) at referral, pre- and post-treatment. 
Mothers and fathers also gave a qualitative account of their experiences.
Thirty-one families were enrolled and only one family dropped out. Mean age of
the children was 9 years. Intent-to-treat analyses revealed significant
reductions in anxiety and depressive symptoms from pre- to post-treatment for all
informants. Large effect sizes were found for child anxiety symptoms as reported 
by mothers and fathers, and for child depressive symptoms as reported by mothers.
Medium to large effect sizes was found for the self-reported anxiety symptoms by 
the children, and for depressive symptoms reported by both children and fathers. 
More than 93% of the parents would recommend the program. Results suggest that
our program may provide a new approach to improve access to treatment for anxious
children in Scandinavia; however, further research must be conducted before firm 
conclusions can be drawn.

PMID: 31099055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100.Stationary and ambulatory attention patterns are differentially associated with
early temperamental risk for socioemotional problems: Preliminary evidence from a
multimodal eye-tracking investigation.

Behavioral Inhibition (BI) is a temperament type that predicts social withdrawal 
in childhood and anxiety disorders later in life. However, not all BI children
develop anxiety. Attention bias (AB) may enhance the vulnerability for anxiety in
BI children, and interfere with their development of effective emotion
regulation. In order to fully probe attention patterns, we used traditional
measures of reaction time (RT), stationary eye-tracking, and recently emerging
mobile eye-tracking measures of attention in a sample of 5- to 7-year-olds
characterized as BI (N = 23) or non-BI (N = 58) using parent reports. There were 
no BI-related differences in RT or stationary eye-tracking indices of AB in a
dot-probe task. However, findings in a subsample from whom eye-tracking data were
collected during a live social interaction indicated that BI children (N = 12)
directed fewer gaze shifts to the stranger than non-BI children (N = 25).
Moreover, the frequency of gazes toward the stranger was positively associated
with stationary AB only in BI, but not in non-BI, children. Hence, BI was
characterized by a consistent pattern of attention across stationary and
ambulatory measures. We demonstrate the utility of mobile eye-tracking as an
effective tool to extend the assessment of attention and regulation to social
interactive contexts.

PMID: 31097053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101.Radiosurgery for Behavioral Disorders.

Psychiatric illnesses create great suffering for patients and the medical
solution is sometimes limited. The experience observed after treating patients
with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), depression, and anorexia nervosa by
Gamma Knife radiosurgery (GKRS) is presented. Ten patients with medically
refractory OCD, 3 patients with depression resistant to medical treatment and
electroconvulsive therapy, and 5 patients with refractory anorexia nervosa have
been treated. Bilateral anterior capsulotomy has been performed to treat OCD and 
bilateral cingulotomy has been applied to treat severe depression and anorexia
nervosa. The accumulated experience about treatment of OCD by GKRS is reviewed.
In our experience, 70% of OCD patients achieved a full response. We observed a
significant improvement in patients with depression and anorexia nervosa
evidenced by the scales of assessment (mean reduction of 40% in the Beck
Depression Inventory at 1-year follow-up and 40% average increase of body mass
index at 6-month follow-up). No side effects have been observed. These procedures
are effective in reducing obsession, compulsion, depression, and anxiety,
improving the quality of life of the patients without side effects.

PMID: 31096225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102.A Psychoanalytical Approach to Diogenes Syndrome.

This article is an attempt at a psychoanalytic understanding of Diogenes
syndrome, or hoarding disorder syndrome, by way of a clinical case. This syndrome
is characterized by a failure to attend to proper housing habits, including the
hoarding of rubbish that may, in fact, create unsuitable, even dangerous, living 
conditions. The clinical case used suggests that Diogenes syndrome or hoarding
disorder reflects or indicates an extreme form of obsessive neurosis involving
libidinal regressions to anal fixations designed, paradoxically, to satisfy both 
a passion for dirty and for order. However, this pathological hoarding may also
function to protect the subject against fears associated with meeting people,
thereby avoiding any possible intimacy and promoting self-exclusion in an
anti-object aim. Finally, the case under discussion helps us to understand the
particular psychological aspects or relevance that the actual items and rubbish
accumulated have in this syndrome.

PMID: 31090506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103.Cutoff of the Zarit Burden Interview in predicting depression and anxiety.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of the present study was to determine a statistically
valid cutoff score for the Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI) in order to identify
family caregivers at risk for depression and anxiety to guide for further
assessment and future intervention.
METHODS: The ZBI, the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ), and the Generalized
Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD) were administered to a representative community
sample of 327 family caregivers of schizophrenia individuals. A ZBI cutoff score 
was determined using three different statistical methods: tree-based modeling,
K-means clustering technique and linear regression, followed by contingency
analysis and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve to compare between
depression and anxiety scale scores with the ZBI cutoff.
RESULTS: Findings suggest that a cutoff score of 48 in ZBI has significant
predictive validity for identifying caregivers at risk for both depression and
anxiety. A ZBI cutoff of 48 showed sensitivity of 73% for PHQ and 70% for GAD,
specificity of 80% for PHQ and 79% for GAD, PPV (positive predictive value) of
75% for PHQ and 73% for GAD, NPV (negative predictive value) of 78% for PHQ and
76% for GAD.
CONCLUSIONS: This cutoff score would enable health care providers to assess
family caregivers at risk and provide necessary interventions to improve their
quality of life in this important role.

PMID: 31089989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104.An Observational Preliminary Study on the Safety of Long-Term Consumption of
Micronutrients for the Treatment of Psychiatric Symptoms.

Objectives: There is an increasing body of literature documenting the efficacy of
micronutrients (vitamins and minerals) interventions for the treatment of
psychiatric problems in the short term; however, long-term safety is largely
unexplored. The goal of this observational study was to investigate the safety of
two commercially available broad-spectrum micronutrient formulas (EMPowerplus and
Daily Essential Nutrients) given at doses above the Recommended Dietary
Allowances for the long-term treatment of individuals with psychiatric symptoms. 
Design: Participants on long-term treatment with micronutrients (medication-free)
for psychiatric problems (attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder [ADHD,
n = 21], anxiety/depression [n = 13]) were identified from ongoing research
studies and the community through purchasing records. Seventeen children and 17
adults had blood tests to assess their full blood count, coagulation profile,
liver and kidney function, fasting glucose, iron studies, key nutrients, and
prolactin. Questionnaires assessed psychological/psychiatric functioning.
Seventeen of the participants had completed the same measures pretreatment.
Results: The average length of consuming micronutrients was 2.66 years (standard 
deviation = 2.86). Excluding B12 (which was elevated for almost all
participants), 94.6% of all blood test results were within the test reference
ranges. One participant was diagnosed with hemochromatosis based on iron studies.
No other clinically relevant adverse changes in blood results were identified
pre- and post-treatment. No clinically significant adverse effects were reported.
Post-treatment psychometrics identified that 85% of the participants were in
nonclinical ranges for measures of ADHD, depression, anxiety, and stress.
Conclusions: We report preliminary evidence for the safety of long-term
commercially available micronutrients, although questions remain. Overall, the
substantial psychiatric benefits observed appear to outweigh the minimal observed
risks in these participants. Screening for potential medical problems is
recommended before initiating treatment. Long-term pharmacovigilance monitoring
is required to ascertain any rare but significant adverse events.

PMID: 31081672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105.Update on Binge Eating Disorder.

Binge eating disorder (BED) is the most common eating disorder and an important
public health problem. Lifetime prevalence of BED in the United States is 2.6%.
In contrast to other eating disorders, the female to male ratio in BED is more
balanced. BED co-occurs with a plethora of psychiatric disorders, most commonly
mood and anxiety disorders. BED is also associated with obesity and its numerous 
complications. Although BED is similar in men and women in presentation and
treatment outcomes, there are some key neurobiological differences that should be
taken in consideration when personalizing treatment.

PMID: 31078199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106.The utility of the SCAS-C/P to detect specific anxiety disorders among clinically
anxious children.

Questionnaire measures offer a time and cost-effective alternative to full
diagnostic assessments for identifying and differentiating between potential
anxiety disorders and are commonly used in clinical practice. Little is known,
however, about the capacity of questionnaire measures to detect specific anxiety 
disorders in clinically anxious preadolescent children. This study aimed to
establish the ability of the Spence Children's Anxiety Scale (SCAS) subscales to 
identify children with specific anxiety disorders in a large clinic-referred
sample (N = 1,438) of children aged 7 to 12 years. We examined the capacity of
the Separation Anxiety, Social Phobia, Generalized Anxiety, and Physical Injury
Fears (phobias) subscales to discriminate between children with and without the
target disorder. We also identified optimal cutoff scores on subscales for
accurate identification of children with the corresponding disorder, and examined
the contribution of child, mother, and father reports. The Separation Anxiety
subscale was able to accurately identify children with separation anxiety
disorder, and this was replicated across all 3 reporters. Mother- and
father-reported Social Phobia subscales also accurately identified children with 
social anxiety disorder, although child report was only able to accurately detect
social anxiety disorder in girls. Using 2 or more reporters improved the
sensitivity of the Separation Anxiety and Social Phobia subscales but reduced
specificity. The Generalized Anxiety and Physical Injury Fears subscales failed
to accurately identify children with the corresponding disorders. These findings 
have implications for the potential use of mother-, father-, and child-report
SCAS subscales to detect specific disorders in preadolescent children in clinical
settings. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 31070449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107.Association between early-life trauma and obsessive compulsive symptoms in
community youth.

BACKGROUND: Obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCS) in youth are common, have
heterogeneous manifestations, and have been shown to be associated with serious
psychopathology. While early-life trauma exposure is associated with increased
risk for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), its association with different OCS 
and its clinical relevance for serious psychopathology is unclear. Here we aimed 
to evaluate associations among traumatic stressful events (TSE), OCS, and serious
psychiatric conditions in community youth.
METHODS: We studied nonmental-help seeking youths from the Philadelphia
Neurodevelopmental Cohort (N = 7054, aged 11-21, 54% females, 52% prepubertal),
assessed for lifetime TSE exposure and OCS. Regression models investigated
cross-sectional associations of TSEs with OCS, and associations with depression, 
suicide ideation and psychosis. Models examined sex and puberty effects,
controlling for age and socioeconomic status.
RESULTS: Trauma exposure was associated with higher OCS rates, especially in
females (Trauma × Sex interaction Wald = 7.93, p = 0.005) and prepuberty
(Trauma × Puberty interaction Wald = 7.68, p = 0.006). TSEs were associated with 
all OCS manifestations, most prominently with bad intrusive thoughts (odds ratio 
[OR] = 1.63). Assaultive TSEs, especially sexual assault, showed stronger
associations with OCS compared with nonassaultive TSEs. While TSEs and OCS were
independently associated with depression, suicide ideation, and psychosis, a
significant interaction was observed only in association with increased rates of 
psychosis (Trauma × OCS interaction Wald = 5.08, p = 0.024).
CONCLUSION: Early-life trauma is associated with OCS in a dose-response manner,
more so in females and prepuberty. The trauma-OCS association varied by load,
type of trauma, and by OCS subtypes. Trauma-OCS appears a detrimental combination
in association with psychosis.

PMID: 31066996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108.Parsing neurodevelopmental features of irritability and anxiety: Replication and 
validation of a latent variable approach.

Irritability and anxiety are two common clinical phenotypes that involve
high-arousal negative affect states (anger and fear), and that frequently
co-occur. Elucidating how these two forms of emotion dysregulation relate to
perturbed neurodevelopment may benefit from alternate phenotyping strategies. One
such strategy applies a bifactor latent variable approach that can parse shared
versus unique mechanisms of these two phenotypes. Here, we aim to replicate and
extend this approach and examine associations with neural structure in a large
transdiagnostic sample of youth (N = 331; M = 13.57, SD = 2.69 years old; 45.92% 
male). FreeSurfer was used to extract cortical thickness, cortical surface area, 
and subcortical volume. The current findings replicated the bifactor model and
demonstrate measurement invariance as a function of youth age and sex. There were
no associations of youth's factor scores with cortical thickness, surface area,
or subcortical volume. However, we found strong convergent and divergent validity
between parent-reported irritability and anxiety factors with clinician-rated
symptoms and impairment. A general negative affectivity factor was robustly
associated with overall functional impairment across symptom domains. Together,
these results support the utility of the bifactor model as an alternative
phenotyping strategy for irritability and anxiety, which may aid in the
development of targeted treatments.

PMID: 31064595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109.Genotype-phenotype associations in children with copy number variants associated 
with high neuropsychiatric risk in the UK (IMAGINE-ID): a case-control cohort
study.

BACKGROUND: Several copy number variants (CNVs) are associated with a high risk
of neurodevelopmental and psychiatric disorders (referred to as ND-CNVs). We
aimed to characterise the effect of ND-CNVs on childhood development and
investigate whether different ND-CNVs lead to distinct and specific patterns of
cognitive and behavioural outcomes.
METHODS: In this case-control study, we used data from the Intellectual
Disability and Mental Health: Assessing the Genomic Impact on Neurodevelopment
(IMAGINE-ID) study. Children aged 4 years and older with pathogenic CNV or single
nucleotide variants were recruited via the UK National Health Service (NHS)
medical genetic clinic network and via patient support groups to complete broad
online phenotyping, from whom children aged 6-19 years with at least one of a
specific group of ND-CNVs (1q21.1 [proximal duplication, and distal deletion and 
duplication], 2p16.3 deletion, 9q34.3 deletion, 15q11.2 deletion, 15q13.3
deletion and duplication, 16p11.2 [proximal deletion and duplication, and distal 
deletion], and 22q11.2 deletion and duplication) and their families were
approached for a deep phenotyping, home-based assessment, and we report on this
sample here. We invited siblings of index children to participate as controls,
for whom the presence of ND-CNVs was excluded by use of microarray results and
also medical records where possible. We systematically assessed the children for 
psychiatric disorders and broader traits of neurodevelopmental, cognitive, and
psychopathological origin and compared results of ND-CNV carriers with control
siblings to test the hypothesis that phenotypes would differ by genotype, both
quantitatively in terms of severity and qualitatively in the pattern of
associated impairments.
FINDINGS: Between Oct 1, 2014, and Dec 31, 2018, of 2819 children recruited, 258 
(9%) had one ND-CNV of interest, with 13 CNVs across nine loci, and underwent a
home-based assessment. 106 control siblings were enrolled. 186 (80%) of ND-CNV
carriers met criteria for one or more psychiatric disorder (odds ratio [OR] 13·8,
95% CI 7·2-26·3, compared with controls). The risk of attention-deficit
hyperactivity disorder (OR 6·9, 3·2-15·1), oppositional defiant disorder (OR 3·6,
1·4-9·4), any anxiety disorder (OR 2·9, 1·2-6·7), and autism spectrum disorder
traits (OR 44·1, 15·3-127·5) was particularly high compared with controls. ND-CNV
carriers were impaired across all neurodevelopmental, cognitive, and
psychopathological traits compared with controls. Only moderate quantitative and 
qualitative differences in phenotypic profile were found between genotypes.
Overall, the range of phenotypes was broadly similar for all ND-CNV genotypes.
Traits did show some evidence of genotypic specificity, with rank-based analyses 
showing moderate qualitative and quantitative profile differences between
ND-CNVs; however, the specific genotype accounted for a low proportion of
variance in cognitive and behavioural outcomes (approximately 5-20% depending on 
the trait).
INTERPRETATION: The 13 ND-CNVs studied have a similar range of adverse effects on
childhood neurodevelopment, despite subtle quantitative and qualitative
differences. Genomic risk for neuropsychiatric disorder has pleiotropic effects
on multiple processes and neural circuits and indicates that future research
should avoid being narrowly focused on single phenotypes.
FUNDING: UK Medical Research Council and Medical Research Foundation.

PMID: 31056457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110.Pregnancy hypertension and its associations with pre-pregnancy depression,
anxiety, antidepressants, and anxiolytics.

INTRODUCTION: Few studies have examined pre-pregnancy depression/anxiety and
antidepressant/anxiolytic medication use in relation to hypertension disorders of
pregnancy, i.e. chronic hypertension (CH), pre-eclampsia (PE), and gestational
hypertension (GH).
METHODS: This nested case-control study uses Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan
(BCBSM) claims data of women with singleton live birth pregnancies (2010-2014)
enrolled from 2 years prior to last menstrual period to ninety days after
delivery. All women with ICD-9CM codes for CH, PE, GH, or unspecified
hypertension were included as cases; women without hypertension were randomly
sampled as controls. Linkage to Michigan birthfiles resulted in a sample of
12,647 women. Using weighted logistic regression, cases and controls were
compared for depression and/or anxiety diagnoses (ICD-9CM codes) and
anti-depressant and/or anxiolytic prescriptions throughout the study period.
Depression and anxiety were defined as primary diagnosis in ≥1 inpatient or ≥2
outpatient visits.
RESULTS: Among women with hypertension disorders of pregnancy, 59% had PE or GH, 
referred to here as pregnancy hypertension (PH). PH was associated with
anti-depressant use prior to LMP only, (aOR = 1.2 95%CI 1.0, 1.5), continued use,
(aOR = 1.4 95%CI 1.1, 1.7), and initiation of anxiolytic medication during
pregnancy, (aOR = 2.5 95%CI 1.6, 4.2). In this latter group, 96% started
medication before PH diagnosis. CH and PH were not associated with depression or 
anxiety in the absence of anti-depressants/anxiolytics.
CONCLUSION: While anti-depressants/anxiolytics may be useful indicators in risk
stratification for pregnancy hypertension, the same does not appear to be true
for depression/anxiety without related medication use.

PMID: 31056161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111.Relation between cognitive and behavioral strategies and future change in common 
mental health problems across 18 years.

Major depressive disorder (MDD), generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), and panic
disorder (PD), constitute common mental disorders that may have chronic and
disabling courses. Cognitive and behavioral theories posit that lack of
engagement in certain strategies (goal persistence, self-mastery, positive
reappraisal) increases vulnerability toward these disorders. Further, scar effect
theories assert that experiencing more of these disorders may diminish engagement
in such strategies within individuals across time. However, dynamic longitudinal 
associations between cognitive-behavioral strategies (CBS) and disorder counts
across adulthood are not well understood. Using bivariate latent difference score
models, this study aimed to test the dynamic trajectories between disorder counts
and each CBS across 18 years. Participants were 3,294 community-dwelling adults
ages 45.62 years (SD = 11.41, range = 20-74; 54.61% female) who took part in 3
waves of measurement spaced 9 years apart. Self-mastery, disorder counts, and
their change were not significantly related. However, higher within-subject
increase in goal persistence (but not self-mastery or positive reappraisal) led
to greater future decline in disorder counts, but not vice versa. Last, within
individuals, greater prior levels of goal persistence and positive reappraisal
predicted larger subsequent reduction in disorder counts, and vice versa. The
reciprocal, bidirectional associations between specific CBS (goal persistence,
positive reappraisal) and disorder counts support both vulnerability and scar
models of depression and anxiety. Treatments for MDD, GAD, and PD should attempt 
to enhance perseverance and optimism. Theoretical and clinical implications are
further discussed. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 31045412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Sedentary behaviors and anxiety among children, adolescents and adults: a
systematic review and meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: Although the number of studies examining the relationships between
sedentary behaviors (SB) and anxiety is growing, an overarching evidence, taking 
into account children, adolescents, and adults as well as different types of SB
and different categories of anxiety outcomes, is still missing. Thus, this
systematic review and meta-analysis aimed at obtaining a comprehensive overview
of existing evidence.
METHODS: A search in the following databases: PsycINFO, PsycARTICLES, Academic
Search Complete, ERIC, HealthSource: Nursing/Academic Edition and MEDLINE,
resulted in k = 31 original studies included in the systematic review (total
N = 99,192) and k = 17 (total N = 27,443) included in the meta-analysis. Main
inclusion criteria referred to testing the SB--anxiety relationship, the quality 
score (above the threshold of 65%), and the language of publications (English).
The study was following the PRISMA statement and was registered at PROSPERO
(CRD42017068517).
RESULTS: Both the systematic review and meta-analysis indicated that overall
average effects were small: higher levels of symptoms of anxiety were associated 
with higher levels of SB (weighted r = .093, 95% CI [.055, .130], p < .001).
Moderator analyses indicated that trends for stronger effects were observed among
adults, compared to children/adolescents (p = .085).
CONCLUSIONS: Further longitudinal studies are necessary to elucidate the
predictive direction of the anxiety-SB relationship and to clarify whether the
effects depend on the type of anxiety indicators.

PMID: 31039760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113.Working memory moderates the association between early institutional care and
separation anxiety symptoms in late childhood and adolescence.

Adverse caregiving, for example, previous institutionalization (PI), is often
associated with emotion dysregulation that increases anxiety risk. However, the
concept of developmental multifinality predicts heterogeneity in anxiety
outcomes. Despite this well-known heterogeneity, more work is needed to identify 
sources of this heterogeneity and how these sources interact with environmental
risk to influence mental health. Here, working memory (WM) was examined during
late childhood/adolescence as an intra-individual factor to mitigate the risk for
separation anxiety, which is particularly susceptible to caregiving adversities. 
A modified "object-in-place" task was administered to 110 youths (10-17 years
old), with or without a history of PI. The PI youths had elevated separation
anxiety scores, which were anticorrelated with morning cortisol levels, yet there
were no group differences in WM. PI youths showed significant heterogeneity in
separation anxiety symptoms and morning cortisol levels, and WM moderated the
link between caregiving and separation anxiety and mediated the association
between separation anxiety and morning cortisol in PI youth. Findings suggest
that (a) institutional care exerts divergent developmental consequences on
separation anxiety versus WM, (b) WM interacts with adversity-related emotion
dysregulation, and (c) WM may be a therapeutic target for separation anxiety
following early caregiving adversity.

PMID: 31038094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114.Sudden Gains: How Important Are They During Exposure and Response Prevention for 
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder?

Symptom reduction over the course of cognitive-behavioral therapy is not always
distributed evenly across sessions. Some individuals experience a sudden gain,
defined as a large, rapid, and stable decrease in symptoms during treatment.
Although research documents a link between sudden gains and treatment for
depression and anxiety, findings in the context of obsessive-compulsive disorder 
(OCD) treatment are mixed. The present study investigated the relationship
between sudden gains and treatment outcome in 44 adults with OCD and addressed
limitations of previous studies by measuring OCD symptoms dimensionally and
comparing individuals who experience sudden gains to those who experience gradual
gains of similar magnitude. Sudden gains were observed among 27% of participants,
with highest rates among individuals with primary contamination symptoms.
Participants who experienced a sudden gain had greater OCD symptom reductions at 
posttreatment (but not at follow-up), and this difference did not persist after
controlling for gain magnitude. Thus, the importance of sudden gains during OCD
treatment may be limited. Findings are discussed in light of inhibitory learning 
models of cognitive-behavioral therapy.

PMID: 31030882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115.Emotion Regulation Strategies in Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Panic Disorder.

Emotion regulation (ER) has been incorporated into many models of
psychopathology, but it has not been examined directly in cognitive behavioral
therapy (CBT) for panic disorder with agoraphobia (PD/A). In this study, a
preliminary model of ER in CBT for PD/A is proposed based on existing theories,
and several propositions of the model are tested. We hypothesized that increases 
in cognitive reappraisal would precede decreases in biased cognitions, decreases 
in expressive suppression would follow decreases in biased cognitions, and a
reduction in symptom severity would follow decreases in expressive suppression.
Twenty-nine patients who received CBT for PD/A completed weekly self-report
measures of symptom severity, anxiety sensitivity, reappraisal and expressive
suppression. In addition, patients were compared to a matched normal sample.
Cross-lagged analyses partially supported the hypotheses. Reappraisal did not
change until late stages of therapy and was generally not associated with
treatment outcome. Suppression decreased significantly and exhibited a reciprocal
relationship with biased cognitions. Symptom reduction followed decreases in
suppression as hypothesized. However, patients did not differ in ER from matched 
controls at either pre- or posttreatment. Results suggest the important
distinction between reappraisal and appraisal, and stress the role of
session-by-session decreases in suppression as a predictor of symptom reduction.

PMID: 31030881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116.Is Heightened Disgust Propensity Truly a Risk Factor for Contamination-Related
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder?

Disgust propensity (DP) has been conceptualized as a stable personality trait
that confers risk for contamination-related OCD (C-OCD). However, the extent to
which DP leads to the subsequent development of C-OCD is unclear. In fact, the
presence of C-OCD might lead to an increase in DP rather than the inverse. The
present study was aimed to test this hypothesis in a large clinical sample of OCD
patients (≥ 21 years of age) with (C-OCD; n = 56) and without (NC-OCD; n = 103)
contamination-related symptoms that completed measures of OCD symptoms,
depression, anxiety, and DP. DP was assessed twice, in reference to the present
situation (T1) and to when the participant was 18 years old (T0). The two groups 
did not significantly differ in DP at T0. However, C-OCD participants reported
higher DP scores than NC-OCD at T1. Furthermore, the T1 vs T0 difference in DP
was significant only in the C-OCD group. Subsequent analyses also showed that T1 
DP levels, but not T0 levels, significantly predicted contamination-related
symptoms. Despite study limitations, these findings question the role of DP as a 
risk factor for C-OCD.

PMID: 31030878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Sleep-Related Problems in Pediatric Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder and Intensive
Exposure Therapy.

Limited research has examined sleep-related problems (SRPs) among children and
adolescents with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). The present study addresses
this gap by investigating preliminary associations between SRPs, demographic
factors (gender and age), family variables (family accommodation and parental
stress), and clinical factors (medication status, internalizing and externalizing
symptoms, OCD severity, OCD-related impairment), and treatment outcomes in a
sample of 103 youth (aged 7 to 17 years; 53% female) with a primary diagnosis of 
OCD. Clinician, parent, and child measures were used to assess demographic,
family, and clinical predictors. SRPs were assessed using an 8-item measure
comprising items of the Child Behaviour Checklist, Child Depression Inventory,
and Multidimensional Anxiety Scale for Children as used in previous studies.
Results showed that SRPs were highly prevalent among this sample and that more
SRPs were associated with younger age, internalizing problems, and functional
impairment. However, SRPs were not an independent predictor of OCD severity,
impairment, or treatment response. Preliminary findings suggest that SRPs among
youth with OCD may be more strongly associated with broader internalizing
symptoms than with OCD itself. Future longitudinal research is warranted to
further explore the complexity of SRPs when co-occurring with pediatric OCD.

PMID: 31030877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118.Repetitive Thinking in Social Anxiety Disorder: Are Anticipatory Processing and
Post-Event Processing Facets of an Underlying Unidimensional Construct?

Existing literature suggests that anticipatory processing and post-event
processing-two repetitive thinking processes linked to social anxiety disorder
(SAD)-might be better conceptualized as facets of an underlying unidimensional
repetitive thinking construct. The current study tested this by examining
potential factor structures underlying anticipatory processing and post-event
processing. Baseline data from two randomized controlled trials, consisting of
306 participants with SAD who completed anticipatory processing and post-event
processing measures in relation to a speech task, were subjected to confirmatory 
factor analysis. A bifactor model with a General Repetitive Thinking factor and
two group factors corresponding to anticipatory processing and post-event
processing best fit with the data. Further analyses indicated an optimal model
would include only the General Repetitive Thinking factor (reflecting
anticipatory processing and a specific aspect of post-event processing) and
Post-event Processing group factor (reflecting another specific aspect of
post-event processing that is separable), providing evidence against a
unidimensional account of repetitive thinking in SAD. Analyses also indicated
that the General Repetitive Thinking factor had moderately large associations
with social anxiety and life interference (rs = .43 to .47), suggesting its
maladaptive nature. The separable Post-event Processing group factor only had
small associations with social anxiety (rs = .16 to .27) and was not related to
life interference (r = .11), suggesting it may not, in itself, be a maladaptive
process. Future research that further characterises the bifactor model components
and tests their utility has the potential to improve the conceptualisation and
assessment of repetitive thinking in SAD.

PMID: 31030874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119.Mood Disorders in High-Functioning Autism: The Importance of Alexithymia and
Emotional Regulation.

Individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) often have co-morbid anxiety and 
depression. Alexithymia and emotion regulation difficulties are commonly seen in 
individuals with ASD and in mood disorders. We hypothesized that alexithymia and 
emotional regulation would mediate the relationship between autistic features and
anxiety/depression symptom severity. We collected data about emotional
regulation, alexithymia, autistic symptoms and depression/anxiety in a sample of 
64 young adults with ASD. We constructed two serial multiple mediator models,
using autistic features as the independent variable and anxiety/depression
symptoms as outcome variables. The serial relationship between alexithymia and
emotional regulation mediated associations between autistic features and
depression and anxiety, separately. The findings suggest that targeting
alexithymia may benefit therapies designed to alleviate mood disorders in ASD.

PMID: 31028592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Protocol for a randomised controlled feasibility study examining the efficacy of 
brief cognitive therapy for the Treatment of Anxiety Disorders in Adolescents
(TAD-A).

BACKGROUND: Anxiety disorders affect a quarter of the population during their
lifetime, and typically emerge in childhood or adolescence. Anxiety disorders
disrupt young people's social, emotional and academic development and in the
absence of treatment, often follow a chronic course. Although effective
treatments, such as Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT), exist, only a small
proportion of adolescents with anxiety disorders who need treatment receive them.
Barriers to treatment provision include the fact that CBT typically requires
14-16 sessions by a highly qualified therapist and services are stretched -
resulting in lengthy waiting lists and limited access to treatment. This
highlights the importance of developing new ways of providing effective
treatments for adolescent anxiety disorders. This study aims to assess the
feasibility of a future, large-scale trial. This will give a clear indication of 
the likely success of running a randomised controlled trial to compare a new,
brief cognitive therapy treatment to an existing CBT group therapy for
adolescents with anxiety disorders.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study will examine whether a definitive trial can be
conducted on the basis of a feasibility RCT using a number of well-defined
criteria. The feasibility RCT is a single-centre, randomised control trial.
Forty-eight Young people (age 11-17.5 years) attending a university research
clinic, who meet the diagnostic criteria for a DSM-5 anxiety disorder, will be
randomly allocated to receive either (1) Adolescent Cognitive Therapy for Anxiety
(ACTA), which involves six 60-90-min sessions and a booster session or (2) group 
CBT, which involves eight 2-h sessions and a booster session. As part of the
feasibility indicators, patient outcomes, expectations and experiences, as well
as health economic factors, will be assessed before, at the end of treatment and 
at a 3-month follow-up.
DISCUSSION: The successful delivery of a future, definitive trial has the
potential to bring direct benefits to young people and their families, adolescent
mental health service providers, as well as benefits to adult mental health
services and society more broadly by disrupting the negative trajectory commonly 
associated with adolescent anxiety disorders.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN, ID: ISRCTN86123204 . Retrospectively registered on 23
November 2017.

PMID: 31023352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121.The Effectiveness of Hypnosis Intervention in Alleviating Postpartum
Psychological Symptoms.

Psychological symptoms, particularly postpartum depression, may impair women's
well-being after childbirth. Mind-body treatments such as hypnosis are available 
to help prepare women to maintain or improve their well-being postpartum. The
aims of the present study are to determine the effectiveness of a hypnosis
intervention in alleviating psychological symptoms (stress, anxiety, and
depression) and the symptoms of postpartum depression. A quasi-experimental
design was utilized in this study. The experimental group participants (n = 28)
received a hypnosis intervention at weeks 16, 20, 28, and 36 of their
pregnancies. Participants in the control group (n = 28) received routine prenatal
care. The final data collection, occurring at two months postpartum, included 16 
women from the experimental group and 11 women from the control group. The
Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-21 (DASS-21) was used to measure psychological
symptoms, and postpartum depression was assessed using the Edinburgh Postnatal
Depression Scale (EPDS). The results at two months postpartum showed that the
experimental group had significantly lower postpartum anxiety than the control
group (M = 2.88 versus M = 38.36, p = .023). Similarly, the experimental group
had significantly lower postpartum depressive symptoms than the control group (M 
= 1.25 versus M = 6.73, p < .002). Group differences in postpartum stress
symptoms were not significant (p = .363). Finally, the results indicated that the
experimental group experienced reduced postpartum depression when compared to the
control group (M = 5.69 versus M = 10.64, p < .001). Thus, hypnosis conducted
during pregnancy may promote improvements in psychological well-being postpartum.

PMID: 31017553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122.Developmental social vulnerability as the intrinsic origin of psychopathology: A 
paradigm shift from disease entities to psychiatric derivatives within human
diversity.

How a social episode is perceived by a person and how the experience affects
her/his subsequent behaviors will inevitably and sometimes accidentally vary in
each case on the developmental trajectory from the birth of consciousness to
death. Both the preceding developmental conditions and the social impact of the
episode become a starting point for the following states of human complex
conditions, creating the extraordinary diversity that characterizes our complex
society. In this evolutionarily carved landscape, genetic factors including
stochastic epistasis, environmental modification, and gene-environment
interactions are all active. In these processes, interactions between
developmental social vulnerability and environmental influences can lead to the
emergence and persistence of some derivative states with social maladaptation. In
our model, every psychiatric condition including aberrant paranoid-hallucinatory 
states is classified as a derivative state. The probability distribution curve
for these derivative states has a non-linear relationship with the liability in
the population, and there is none with probability 1.0 or zero. Individuals with 
trivial social vulnerability or high resilience may develop the derivative states
in tremendously stressful circumstances, and individuals with huge social
vulnerability may not necessarily develop the derivative states in the presence
of adequate social supports. Social skillfulness/unskillfulness and behavioral
flexibility/inflexibility form the core of the vulnerability-related dimensions. 
The clinical picture of a derivative manifestation is profiled depending on the
individual trait levels in the derivative-related dimensions. Each derivative
state has a requisite lineup of dimensions and each dimension can contribute to
multiple psychiatric conditions. For example, aberrant paranoid-hallucinatory
states and bipolar condition may share some developmental conditions as the
derivative-related dimensions. Therefore, multiple derivative states can co-occur
or be sequentially comorbid. Although the 'learned strategies' can ostensibly
mask the clinical manifestation of developmental deviations, the change of the
true dimensional position to the socially skillful direction is efficiently
obtained through social experiences in a supportive environment. The
liability-probability model makes it impossible to discriminate individuals with 
psychiatric diagnosis from individuals without the diagnosis and allows all of us
to reside in the same human complex diversity.

PMID: 31010507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123.A single preoperative pain neuroscience education: Is it an effective strategy
for patients with carpal tunnel syndrome?

Patients undergoing carpal tunnel release surgery may continue to experience pain
despite the intervention. This symptom may be modulated by psychosocial factors
including depression, catastrophic thinking, and kinesiophobia. Pain neuroscience
education (PNE) has been found to be effective when combined with therapeutic
exercise in patients with chronic pain, but this strategy has not been evaluated 
in patients with persistent hand pain. The findings of this study indicate that a
single preoperative PNE session in combination with therapeutic exercise does not
provide added benefits in comparison to standard preoperative care plus
therapeutic exercise. Future studies should evaluate if patients with carpal
tunnel release are additionally benefited by the incorporation and consequent
behavioural changes of more PNE sessions to multimodal treatment.

PMID: 31010499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124.Efficacy and mediators of a group cognitive-behavioral therapy for hoarding
disorder: A randomized trial.

OBJECTIVE: Hoarding disorder (HD) is a common and potentially debilitating
psychiatric disorder. Thus far, psychological treatments have yielded modest
effects and/or were time-consuming and costly to deliver. The aim of the present 
study was to test the efficacy of a brief group cognitive-behavioral therapy
(CBT) for adults with HD and to test hypothesized mediators of treatment outcome.
METHOD: Eighty-seven adults with a primary diagnosis of HD were randomized to
either immediate CBT or wait list. CBT consisted of 16 weekly, 90-min group
sessions that emphasized in-session practice of discarding and refraining from
acquiring, decision-making and problem-solving training, emotional distress
tolerance, motivational interviewing strategies, and contingency management.
Participants were assessed at pretreatment, midtreatment, and posttreatment by an
independent evaluator unaware of treatment condition.
RESULTS: CBT was efficacious for the symptoms of HD compared with wait list.
Saving-related cognitions, but not subjective cognitive impairment, partially
mediated treatment outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Brief Group CBT is an efficacious and feasible treatment for adults
with HD, and is partially mediated by reductions in maladaptive beliefs about
possessions. Superiority trials comparing CBT to active treatments, and
additional research into mechanisms of treatment outcome, are warranted.
(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 31008633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125.Hoarding disorder and cerebellum damage. A case study.

Hoarding disorder is defined as an extensive collecting and difficulty in
discarding objects and items perceived by others as not useful or having low
value. As a consequence it leads to numerous problems which impact not only the
patient but also his/her family and other people (e.g., residents of the same
block of flats). The frequency of hoarding disorder in the United States and
Europe is estimated as 2-6%. In the new classifications of psychiatric disorders 
(DSM-5 and ICD-11), hoarding disorder is classified as a separate disorder. The
scientific research shows that hoarding disorder has specific neurobiological
determinants affecting mainly the cingulate gyrus, frontal cortex and insula.
These regions are connected with the cerebellum with the so-called
cortical-limbic loops. This suggests that the cerebellum damage may result in the
development of hoarding disorder. The presented case study concerns the patient
suffering from hoarding disorder with an atrophy of the cerebellar cortex and
cerebellar vermis indicated by brain imaging (computer tomography and magnetic
resonance imaging of the head). It was excluded that hoarding disorder may be a
symptom of other psychiatric disorders. No abnormalities were found in the
somatic and neurological state of the patient. On the basis of the cited research
studies it may be assumed that in the case of the discussed patient, the
cerebellum damage was a cause of hoarding disorder development.

PMID: 31008472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126.Cyberchondria and its measurement. The Polish adaptation and psychometric
properties of the Cyberchondria Severity Scale CSS-PL.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this paper is a presentation of the adaptation process of 
the Cyberchondria Severity Scale (SCC) to measure cyberchondria and verification 
of reliability and construct validities of the test in the Polish population.
METHODS: The study included 380 participants (203 women and 177 men) aged 19-68
(M = 26.5; SD = 11.1). The CSS-PL was used to measure cyberchondria, the Short
Health Anxiety Inventory (SHAI) for measuring hypochondria, and the Dimensional
Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (DOCS) to verify obsessive-compulsive tendencies.
RESULTS: Four-factor structure of cyberchondria measured with the CSS-PL was
supported. Internal consistency indices of the CSS-PL were between 0.87 and 0.95,
test-retest reliability results were 0.58-0.76. This study demonstrated construct
validity of the CSS-PL via its correlations with health anxiety (r = 0.31-0.56)
and obsessive-compulsive symptoms (r = 0.17-0.48).
CONCLUSIONS: The CSS-PL is an initial standardized version of an instrument for
measuring cyberchondria and meets the psychometric criteria of reliability and
validity for psychological testing tools. The CSS-PL may be used both in
diagnostic and scientific research.

PMID: 31008464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127.Therapeutic efficacy and safety of chamomile for state anxiety, generalized
anxiety disorder, insomnia, and sleep quality: A systematic review and
meta-analysis of randomized trials and quasi-randomized trials.

This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to study the efficacy and safety
of chamomile for the treatment of state anxiety, generalized anxiety disorders
(GADs), sleep quality, and insomnia in human. Eleven databases including PubMed, 
Science Direct, Cochrane Central, and Scopus were searched to retrieve relevant
randomized control trials (RCTs), and 12 RCTs were included. Random effect
meta-analysis was performed by meta package of R statistical software version
3.4.3 and RevMan version 5.3. Our meta-analysis of three RCTs did not show any
difference in case of anxiety (standardized mean difference = -0.15, 95% CI
[-0.46, 0.16], P = 0.4214). Moreover, there is only one RCT that evaluated the
effect of chamomile on insomnia and it found no significant change in insomnia
severity index (P > 0.05). By using HAM-A scale, there was a significant
improvement in GAD after 2 and 4 weeks of treatment (mean difference = -1.43, 95%
CI [-2.47, -0.39], P = 0.007), (MD = -1.79, 95% CI [-3.14, -0.43], P = 0.0097),
respectively. Noteworthy, our meta-analysis showed a significant improvement in
sleep quality after chamomile administration (standardized mean
difference = -0.73, 95% CI [-1.23, -0.23], P < 0.005). Mild adverse events were
only reported by three RCTs. Chamomile appears to be efficacious and safe for
sleep quality and GAD. Little evidence is there to show its effect on anxiety and
insomnia. Larger RCTs are needed to ascertain these findings.

PMID: 31006899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128.Aberrant functional connectivity density in patients with treatment-refractory
obsessive-compulsive disorder: a pilot study.

OBJECTIVE: Functional connectivity (FC) is altered in patients with
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Most previous studies have focused on the
strength of FC in patients with OCD; few have examined the number of functional
connections in these patients. The number of functional connections is an
important index for assessing aberrant FC. In the present study, we used FC
density (FCD) mapping to explore alterations in the number of functional
connections in patients with treatment-refractory OCD (TROCD) using the FCD
index.
METHODS: Twenty patients with TROCD and 20 patients with OCD in clinical
remission were enrolled in the study. Global FCD (gFCD) was adopted to compare
the differences between the two groups of patients.
RESULTS: The gFCD in the left middle temporal gyrus was lower in the patients
with TROCD than in those with remitted OCD, suggesting that decreased information
processing ability may play a significant role in TROCD.
CONCLUSION: The left middle temporal gyrus is a key component of the emotional
processing circuit and attentional processing circuit. Decreased information
processing ability in this brain region may play a significant role in TROCD;
however, further well-designed follow-up studies are needed to support this
hypothesis.

PMID: 31006380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129.Quality of life in patients with multiple sclerosis: A study with patients and
caregivers.

BACKGROUND: Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a chronic disease that affects patients'
quality of life and requires long term demanding care.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to examine the relationships between
patients and caregivers' variables regarding patients' quality of life, the
moderating role of marital satisfaction between patients' psychological morbidity
and quality of life, and the contribution of patient and caregiver variables
towards patients' quality of life.
METHODS: The sample included 100 patients with MS and 72 caregivers.
Participants' variables were assessed using self-report measures. The design of
this quantitative study was transversal.
RESULTS: Marital satisfaction moderated the relationship between patients'
anxiety and mental quality of life. Patients' perception of illness identity and 
consequences together with caregivers' depressive symptoms were mediators between
patients' depression and quality of life. Burden also played a mediator role in
the relationship between patients' depressive symptoms, disability level, and
physical quality of life.
CONCLUSION: Therefore, intervention in multiple sclerosis should be delivered in 
a dyadic context.

PMID: 31005483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130.Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy in Korean patients with systemic lupus
erythematosus: A pilot study.

BACKGROUND: and purpose: The stress and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) are
intertwined and affecting each other. This pilot study evaluated the
mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) in Korean patients with SLE.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Korean version of the Beck Depression Inventory-II
(BDI-II), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWLS), and 
Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) were evaluated for the effect of the MBCT in 25
patients.
RESULTS: The BDI-II, BAI, SWLS, and PSS before the MBCT were 24.2 ± 10.6,
19.1 ± 9.7, 14.7 ± 6.5, and 20.4 ± 3.8, respectively. Eighteen patients completed
the MBCT. After the MBCT, BDI-II, BAI, and PSS improved to 17.4 ± 13.0
(p < 0.01), 13.4 ± 7.7 (p = 0.04), and 17.9 ± 4.6 (p = 0.04), respectively.
However, SWLS and SLE disease activity did not.
CONCLUSION: The MBCT could reduce the anxiety, depression, and stress but not SLE
disease activity.

PMID: 31003655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131.A narrative synthesis of possible causes and risk factors of hoarding behaviours.

BACKGROUND: Hoarding is a disorder characterized by excessive acquisition and
persistent difficulty in discarding possessions. The behaviour has adverse
emotional, physical, social, financial, and legal outcomes for the person with
the disorder and family members, and might pose a significant public health
problem. Hoarding has been included as a distinct disorder in the Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders Fifth edition (DSM-5). The prevalence of
hoarding disorder is approximately 2-6% globally. The current state of the
evidence does not offer clear understanding of the causes of hoarding behaviours.
A systematic review of the extant literature was carried out to determine the
possible causal factors of hoarding behaviours.
METHODS: This review is conducted in line with PRISMA guidelines. The following
electronic databases: Medline through Ovid, EMBASE and PsycINFO were searched for
relevant articles published between January 2000 and November 2018. Only articles
published in English language were included. Two reviewers independently
scrutinized the studies and included them in this review.
RESULTS: Our search strategy returned a total of 396 references. Preliminary
findings suggest that individuals with hoarding behaviours may have a genetic
susceptibility; abnormal neural activity in the fronto-temporal, para-hippocampal
gyrus and insular parts of the brain has also been identified. Traumatic life
experiences have also been posited to predispose individuals to hoard.
CONCLUSION: Although the understanding of hoarding disorder hasgrown in recent
years, greater efforts are still needed to clarify the etiology and mechanisms of
hoarding disorder as these may help in planning of more holistic interventions to
treat the problem.

PMID: 31003207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132.Positive affect treatment for depression and anxiety: A randomized clinical trial
for a core feature of anhedonia.

OBJECTIVE: Loss of pleasure or interest in activities (i.e., anhedonia) is a risk
factor for suicidality, treatment nonresponse, and relapse. Extant treatments
that focus on reducing negative affect have limited effects upon positive affect 
(a core feature of anhedonia). We investigated whether a novel intervention aimed
at increasing reward sensitivity was more efficacious for positive affect than a 
cognitive-behavior treatment aimed at reducing threat sensitivity, in individuals
with clinically severe symptoms of depression or anxiety, and functional
impairment.
METHOD: The Treatment for Affective Dimensions trial was offered in a 2-site
randomized study at outpatient treatment centers in Los Angeles and Dallas.
Ninety-six patients were randomized to 15 weekly, individual sessions of Positive
Affect Treatment (PAT) or Negative Affect Treatment (NAT). The primary outcome
was improvement in positive affect (Positive and Negative Affect
Schedule-Positive) from pretreatment to 6-month follow-up (6MFU). Secondary
outcomes were improvements in negative affect (Positive and Negative Affect
Schedule-Negative), suicidal ideation, and symptoms (Depression Anxiety Stress
Scales).
RESULTS: PAT resulted in greater improvements in positive affect, p = .009, d =
.52, and higher positive affect at 6MFU, p = .002, d = .67, than NAT.
Participants in PAT also reported lower negative affect, p = .033, d = .52, and
lower symptoms of depression, p = .035, d = .34, anxiety, p < .018, d = .30, and 
stress, p = .006, d = .43 at 6MFU. Finally, probability of suicidal ideation at
6MFU was lower in PAT than NAT (1.7% vs. 12.0%), p < .001.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to NAT, PAT demonstrated better outcomes (at 6MFU) on
positive affect, depression, anxiety, stress, and suicidal ideation, for patients
with symptomatic pretreatment levels of these outcomes. (PsycINFO Database Record
(c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 30998048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133.Evaluation of affective temperament and anxiety-depression levels in fibromyalgia
patients: a pilot study.

OBJECTIVE: Fibromyalgia (FM) patients have higher rates of depression and anxiety
disorders than healthy controls. Affective temperament features are subclinical
manifestations of mood disorders. Our aim was to evaluate the affective
temperaments of FM patients and investigate their association with depression and
anxiety levels and clinical findings.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study included FM patients and healthy controls.
The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) was used to determine patient
anxiety and depression levels, and the Temperament Scale of Memphis, Pisa and San
Diego, self-administered version was applied to assess affective temperaments in 
all subjects. Disease severity was assessed in FM patients with the Fibromyalgia 
Criteria and Severity Scales and the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ).
Differences between groups were evaluated using Student's t-tests. Correlations
among parameters were performed.
RESULTS: This study involved 38 patients with FM (30 female) and 30 healthy
controls (25 female). Depressive, anxious and cyclothymic temperaments were
significantly higher in FM patients than healthy controls. Statistically
significant positive correlations were found between HADS depression score and
all temperaments except hyperthymic, as well as between HADS anxiety score and
cyclothymic and anxious temperaments. HADS depression and anxiety scores were
correlated with symptom severity. We found a higher risk of depression and
anxiety among FM patients with higher FIQ scores.
CONCLUSION: This study is the first to evaluate affective temperament features of
FM patients. Evaluating temperamental traits in FM patients may help clinicians
determine which patients are at risk for depression and anxiety disorders.

PMID: 30994852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. The role of long-term psychodynamic psychotherapy in improving attachment
patterns, defense styles, and alexithymia in patients with depressive/anxiety
disorders.

INTRODUCTION: Long-term psychodynamic psychotherapy (LTPP) emphasizes the
centrality of intrapsychic and unconscious conflicts and their relation to
development. Although there is evidence supporting the efficacy of LTPP in mental
disorders, little research has been published on the efficacy of LTPP for
depressive and anxiety disorders.
OBJECTIVE: To examine whether patients with anxiety and depressive disorders
demonstrate improvement in their attachment styles, defense styles, psychiatric
symptoms, anxiety/depressive symptoms, and alexithymia with LTPP.
METHODS: In this retrospective, descriptive study, the psychological outcomes of 
patients who were treated at the psychoanalytic clinic of Babol University of
Medical Sciences were assessed. Fourteen patients diagnosed with depressive or
anxiety disorder participated in the study of LTPP using the self-psychology
approach. The Beck Depression Inventory II, Beck Anxiety Inventory, Adult
Attachment Scale, 40-item Defense Style Questionnaire, and the 20-item Toronto
Alexithymia Scale were administered at pre-treatment, post-treatment, and 6-month
follow-up. Generalized estimating equations were used to analyze changes in
psychological outcomes after each of the three assessments.
RESULTS: The mean scores of depression and anxiety and secure attachment improved
significantly after LTPP with self-psychology approach from baseline to
post-treatment and follow-up. Also, the mean scores of neurotic and immature
defenses, difﬁculty in identifying feelings, difﬁculty in describing feelings,
externally oriented thinking, and total alexithymia scores decreased
significantly from baseline to post-treatment and follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Symptoms of anxiety disorders, depressive disorders, insecure
attachment styles, alexithymia, and neurotic/immature defense styles improved
after the LTPP with self-psychology approach. Moreover, the improvements
persisted at the 6-month follow-up.

PMID: 30994785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135.Low Zinc, Copper, and Manganese Intake is Associated with Depression and Anxiety 
Symptoms in the Japanese Working Population: Findings from the Eating Habit and
Well-Being Study.

Epidemiological studies have suggested that there is an association between diet 
and mental health. The aim of this study was to investigate the association
between the intake of six minerals and mental disorders in a cross-sectional
study. We used data from the Eating Habit and Well-being study in Japanese
workers. Kessler's six-item psychological distress scale was used to detect
mental disorders, with a cut-off score of 12/13, and a validated food frequency
questionnaire was used to estimate dietary mineral intake. A total of 2089
participants with no history of depression were included. The prevalence of
mental disorders was 6.9%. The lowest quartiles of zinc, copper, and manganese
intakes were associated with mental disorders, whereas the lowest quartiles of
calcium, magnesium, and iron intake were not associated with mental disorders.
Combination analysis of high (≥median) or low (<median) intake of zinc, copper,
and manganese showed that low zinc and low copper intake, even with low or high
manganese intake (odds ratio (OR), 2.71, 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.29-5.73,
and OR, 3.06, 95% CI, 1.41-6.61, respectively) showed a higher OR than that of
high zinc, high copper, and high manganese intake. Further studies are required
to investigate the impact of dietary mineral intake on mental health.

PMID: 30991676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136Assessing Costs Using the Treatment Inventory Cost in Psychiatric Patients
(TIC-P), TIC-P Mini and TIC-P Midi.

BACKGROUND: The Treatment Inventory Cost in Psychiatric patients (TIC-P)
instrument is designed to measure societal costs in patients with psychiatric
disorders and to be applied in economic evaluations. Efforts have been made to
minimize respondents' burden by reducing the number of questions and meanwhile
retaining the comprehensiveness of the instrument. Previously, a TIC-P Mini
version and a TIC-P Midi version were developed and tested in a predominantly
inpatient patient population.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: The aims of this study are to examine the comprehensiveness of
the abridged questionnaires in estimating the societal costs for patients with
anxiety or depressive disorders and to assess the impact of productivity costs on
the total costs.
METHODS: The comprehensiveness of the abridged versions of the TIC-P was assessed
in four populations: a group of primary care patients with anxiety disorders
(n=175) and three groups of patients with major depressive disorders in various
outpatient settings (n=140; n=125; and n=79). Comprehensiveness was measured
using the proportion of total health care costs and productivity costs covered by
the abridged versions compared to the full-length TIC-P. Costs were calculated
according to the guidelines for costing studies using the Dutch costing manual.
RESULTS: Our results showed that the TIC-P Mini covered 26%-64% of health care
costs and the TIC-P Midi captured 54%-79% of health care costs. Health care costs
in these populations were predominantly dispersed over primary care, outpatient
hospital care, outpatient specialist care and inpatient hospital care. The TIC-P 
Midi and TIC-P Mini captured 22% and 0% of primary care costs respectively. In
contrast, inpatient hospital care costs and outpatient specialist mental health
care costs were almost fully included in the abridged versions. Costs due to lost
productivity as measured by the full-length TIC-P were substantial, representing 
38% to 92% of total costs.
DISCUSSION: A reduction of the number of items resulted in a substantial loss in 
the ability to measure health care costs compared to the full-length TIC-P,
because these outpatient populations consumed health care from a variety of
health care providers. Two limitations of the study need to be stressed. Firstly,
the number of patients in each of the four studies was relatively small. However,
results were consistent over the four studies despite the small number of
patients. Secondly, we did not take costs of medication into account.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICIES: In developing mental health policy, it is
important to include considerations on cost-effectiveness. Increasing the
evidence on instruments to measure costs from a societal perspective may support 
policymakers to adopt a broader perspective.
IMPLICATIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH: The TIC-P Mini is not suitable to capture
health care costs in outpatients with anxiety or depressive disorders. The
comprehensiveness of TIC-P Midi compared to the full-length TIC-P varied. The
TIC-P Midi should therefore be revised in order to better capture costs in all
patient groups.


PMID: 30991352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137.The impact of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in obsessive-compulsive
disorder subjects.

BACKGROUND: Recent findings suggest an association between attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Thus, we
evaluated the clinical associated features of ADHD in a large sample of adult OCD
patients.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study including 955 adult patients with OCD from the
Brazilian Research Consortium of Obsessive-Compulsive Spectrum Disorders (C-TOC).
Clinical characteristics in adult OCD patients with and without comorbid ADHD
were compared using Fisher's exact test, t-tests or Mann-Whitney tests. Bivariate
analyses were followed by logistic regression analysis to identify clinical
characteristics independently associated with ADHD comorbidity.
RESULTS: The lifetime prevalence of ADHD in adult OCD patients was 13.7%. The
current results indicate that OCD + ADHD patients were more severe, had an
earlier onset of the obsessive-compulsive symptoms, a higher history of rheumatic
fever, with higher frequencies of sensory phenomena and comorbidity with Tourette
syndrome. They also had an increased risk for academic impairment and suicide
attempts.
CONCLUSION: Adult OCD patients with ADHD present some specific clinical features 
and may represent a special subgroup of adult OCD. Future studies should focus on
the development of interventions more tailored to the phenotype of this subgroup 
of patients.

PMID: 30990937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Development and validation of the Treatment Expectations in Chronic Pain Scale.

OBJECTIVES: To develop and examine the psychometric properties of the Treatment
Expectations in Chronic Pain (TEC) scale, a brief measure of treatment
expectations of chronic non-cancer pain treatment.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional study design was used.
METHODS: After conducting a literature review and expert discussions, a
preliminary version of the TEC scale was developed. Cognitive interviews with 10 
clinicians and 14 patients were conducted to examine the scale's face validity
and item wording. Last, two hundred and five patients on the waitlist for a
multidisciplinary pain treatment centre completed a battery of self-report
questionnaires to examine the TEC scale's reliability and construct validity.
Mokken scale analysis was conducted to select the final items. Reliability
(Cronbach's alpha and Guttman's lambda2 ) and construct validity (Pearson
correlations) were assessed.
RESULTS: The final scale was composed of nine items that each measured ideal and 
predicted expectations about process and outcome of treatment. Mokken scale
analysis showed the presence of two subscales: ideal and predicted expectations. 
The TEC scale had good internal consistency (α = 0.876-0.869) and adequate
discriminant validity as assessed by its low correlation with measures of
depression, anxiety, and quality of life (r = -.038 to .114). The scale had
however low correlation with a theoretically related measure of optimism
(r = .240).
CONCLUSION: The TEC scale is a reliable scale measuring pain treatment
expectation. Further evaluation of its psychometric properties is needed. The
scale has the potential to deepen our understanding of the role treatment
expectations play in chronic non-cancer pain treatment response. Statement of
contribution What is already known on this subject? Expectations play a role in
pain perception and the response to pain treatment Patients' expectations about
pain and its management are associated with treatment satisfaction The absence of
a validated tool to measure treatment expectations in chronic non-cancer pain
prevents further exploration and understanding of the role of expectations in the
context of multidisciplinary pain treatment . What does this study add? A new,
reliable 9-item scale measuring treatment expectations among chronic non-cancer
pain patients attending specialized multidisciplinary pain clinics .

PMID: 30989756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139.Effect of Insurance-Related Factors on the Association between Flooding and
Mental Health Outcomes.

Floods are a significant public health problem linked with increased
psychological morbidity. We aimed to investigate the effect of insurance-related 
factors on the association between flooding and probable mental health outcomes. 
We performed a secondary analysis of cross-sectional survey data from the English
National Study of Flooding and Health (NSFH) collected two years after an initial
flooding event in 2013-14. Our analysis focused on 851 respondents who
experienced flooding or disruption. Multivariable logistic regression models were
run for each exposure group. Among those whose homes had been flooded, not having
household insurance was associated with increased odds of all outcomes compared
to those with household insurance, significantly so for post-traumatic stress
disorder (PTSD) (aOR 4.31, 95% CI 1.31-14.20). Those who reported severe stress
due to insurance issues had increased odds of probable depression (aOR 11.08, 95%
CI 1.11-110.30), anxiety (aOR 4.48, 95% CI 1.02-19.70) and PTSD (aOR 7.95, 95% CI
2.10-30.1) compared to those reporting no/mild stress. The study suggests there
is increased psychological morbidity amongst the uninsured and those who report
feeling severe stress as a result of insurance issues associated with flooding.
Services should be prepared to support communities through insurance processes,
to reduce probable mental health morbidity following a flood event.

PMID: 30986906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140.ADHD in adults: clinical subtypes and associated characteristics.

INTRODUCTION: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is an early onset
clinical condition characterized by attention difficulties, hyperactivity and
impulsivity which can persist across the lifespan, significantly influencing the 
evolutionary course and facilitating the rise of psychiatric comorbidities. The
presence of different ADHD subtypes in adults is a heterogeneity factor to be
recognized in order to orient prognosis and treatment, as indicated by studies
that described differences in the characterization of different subtypes in
relation to both severity and comorbidities.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the present study we evaluated the socio-demographic
and clinical characteristics of a sample of adults with ADHD and the
characteristics associated with the different disorder subtypes. We described 60 
patients aged between 18 and 65 years (mean age 34.1) with primary diagnosis of
ADHD consecutively admitted to the Regional Centre for diagnosis and treatment of
ADHD in adults in Milan.
RESULTS: We observed high severity of symptoms and low quality of life, in
particular in the "life outlook" dimension. The subtypes distribution was the
following: 18.3% inattentive subtype, 8.3% hyperactive/impulsive subtype and 70% 
combined subtype. The hyperactive/impulsive subtype showed a significantly higher
frequency in females, while the inattentive subtype was more frequent in males.
Patients with the hyperactive/impulsive subtype showed worse quality of life and 
more frequent anxiety disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the different clinical profiles among various subtypes, 
these data add relevance to subtypes classification of adult ADHD.

PMID: 30985833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141.Diagnostic Utility of Sodium Lactate Infusion and CO2-35% Inhalation for Panic
Disorder.

Laboratory measures have played an integral role in diagnosing pathology;
however, compared to traditional medicine, psychiatric medicine has lagged behind
in using such measures. A growing body of literature has begun to examine the
viability and development of different laboratory measures in order to diagnose
psychopathologies. The present review examines the current state of development
of both sodium lactate infusion and CO2-35% inhalation as potential ancillary
measures to diagnose panic disorder (PD). A previously established 3-step
approach to identifying laboratory-based diagnostic tests was applied to
available literature assessing the ability of both sodium lactate infusion or
CO2-35% inhalation to induce panic attacks in PD patients, healthy controls, and 
individuals with other psychiatric conditions. Results suggest that across the
literature reviewed, individuals with PD were more likely to exhibit panic
attacks following administration of sodium lactate or CO2-35% compared to control
participants. The majority of the studies examined only compared individuals with
PD to healthy controls, suggesting that these ancillary measures are
underdeveloped. In order to further determine the utility of these ancillary
measures, research is needed to determine if panic attacks following
administration of these chemical agents are unique to PD, or if individuals with 
related pathologies also respond, which may be indicative of transdiagnostic
characteristics found across disorders.

PMID: 30982042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142.Resiliency: Natural Solutions to Stress and Anxiety.

No Abstract Available.


PMID: 30982010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143.Outcome prediction from post-injury resilience in patients with TBI.

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to evaluate the extent to which
1- and 2-year outcomes after traumatic brain injury (TBI) are predicted by
resilience. Research Method/Design: This was an observational, longitudinal study
of persons (n = 158) with moderate or severe TBI who completed both 1- and 2-year
outcome assessments. Outcomes included anxiety (Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7), 
depression (Patient Health Questionnaire-9), life satisfaction (Satisfaction with
Life Scale), substance misuse, and return-to-work measures. The Connor-Davidson
Resilience Scale was used to assess resilience at 3 or 6 months after injury.
RESULTS: Greater resilience predicted less anxiety, depression, and substance use
and better satisfaction with life and return to work at 1 year after injury for
both adjusted and unadjusted models. Standardized regression coefficients were
all greater than 0.38 for continuous outcomes, whereas odds ratios were 1.34 and 
0.81 for the return to work and substance misuse outcomes, respectively (p <
.05). Similar but weaker trends were found at 2 years after injury, with
statistical significance no longer met for all outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS/IMPLICATIONS: Resilience was shown to have predictive ability for
outcomes at 1 and 2 years after TBI. Resilience appears to be a salient and
important variable for long-term outcomes in person with TBI after adjusting for 
injury and demographic characteristics. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA,
all rights reserved).

PMID: 30973246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144.Meta-Analysis of Neuropsychological Studies in Panic Disorder Patients: Evidence 
of Impaired Performance during the Emotional Stroop Task.

BACKGROUND: Recent investigations have highlighted significant differences in
verbal recall between patients with panic disorder (PD) and controls. These
studies have highlighted that verbal memory and working memory could be impaired 
in PD.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of the present meta-analysis is to confirm this
hypothesis, reviewing the studies that have investigated neurocognitive testing
in PD.
METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search for studies published
between 1980 and 2015 that reported cognitive measurements in PD patients and
controls. Effect size estimates were computed using the restricted maximum
likelihood model. Only case-control studies were selected for this meta-analysis.
We included studies that made a direct comparison between PD subjects and healthy
controls. The diagnostic group consisted of adult patients aged over 18 years
diagnosed with PD. We excluded the studies that did not employ a case-control
design. All statistical analyses were carried out on R using the "metafor"
package version 1.9-8. The effect size for each study neuropsychological test was
calculated using the mean and SD of performance results, and p values < 0.05 were
considered significant.
RESULTS: We identified few studies that tested verbal memory and executive
functions in PD patients and controls, and this difference was not significant.
On the other hand, there are several studies that have used the emotional Stroop 
task to assess cognitive functions in PD. There is no robust evidence of
impairment of memory function in PD; however, when considering the emotional
Stroop task, it was found that PD patients performed slower (p < 0.01) than
healthy controls for all three types of stimuli (neutral, negative, positive).
CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis included a small number of studies, which may have
introduced bias into the analysis. However, there is some evidence of impairment 
of neurocognitive functions in PD when performing the emotional Stroop task.
Furthermore, the paucity of studies evaluating neurocognition in PD suggests the 
need for further research in this field in order to draw meaningful conclusions.



DOI: 10.1159/000496623 
PMID: 30970364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145.Relationship between toxoplasmosis and obsessive compulsive disorder: A
systematic review and meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: A few studies investigated the relationship between toxoplasmosis and
mental disorders, such as obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). However, the
specific nature of the association between Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii)
infection and OCD is not yet clear. The aim of this study was to collect
information on the relationship between OCD and toxoplasmosis and assess whether 
patients with toxoplasmosis are prone to OCD.
METHODS: For the purpose of this study, 6 major electronic databases and the
Internet search engine Google Scholar were searched for the published articles up
to July 30th, 2018 with no restriction of language. The inverse variance method
and the random effect model were used to combine the data. The values of odds
ratio (OR) were estimated at 95% confidence interval (CI).
RESULTS: A total of 9 case-control and 3 cross-sectional studies were included in
our systematic review. However, 11 of these 12 articles were entered into the
meta-analysis containing 9873 participants, out of whom 389 were with OCD (25.96%
positive for toxoplasmosis) and 9484 were without OCD (17.12% positive for
toxoplasmosis). The estimation of the random effect model indicated a significant
common OR of 1.96 [95% CI: 1.32-2.90].
CONCLUSION: This systematic review and meta-analysis revealed that toxoplasmosis 
could be as an associated factor for OCD (OR = 1.96). However, further
prospective investigations are highly recommended to illuminate the underlying
pathophysiological mechanisms of T. gondii infection in OCD and to better
investigate the relationship between OCD and T. gondii infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0007306 
PMCID: PMC6457543
PMID: 30969961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]



146.Inhibitory control and emotion dysregulation: A framework for research on
anxiety.

While emotional dysregulation is a broad construct, the current paper adopts a
narrow approach to facilitate translational neuroscience research on pediatric
anxiety. The paper first presents data on an adapted version of the antisaccade
task and then integrates these data into a research framework. Data on an adapted
version of the antisaccade task were collected in 57 youth, including 35 seeking 
treatment for an anxiety disorder. Associations were examined between performance
on the antisaccade task and (a) age, (b) performance on other cognitive-control
tasks (i.e., the stop-signal delay and flanker tasks), and (c) level of anxiety
symptoms. Better performance on the antisaccade task occurred in older relative
to younger subjects and correlated with better performance on the flanker task.
Across the 57 youth, higher levels of anxiety correlated with shorter latency for
correct antisaccades. These data can be placed within a three-step framework for 
translational neuroscience research. In the first step, a narrow index of emotion
dysregulation is targeted. In the second step, this narrow index is linked to
other correlated indicators of the same underlying narrow latent construct. In
the third and final step, associations are examined with clinical outcomes and
response to treatment.

DOI: 10.1017/S0954579419000300 
PMID: 30968800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147.Characterizing emotional Stroop interference in posttraumatic stress disorder,
major depression and anxiety disorders: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: Posttraumatic stress disorder is a debilitating psychiatric disorder 
characterized by symptoms of intrusive re-experiencing of trauma, avoidance and
hyper-arousal. Diagnosis and treatment of PTSD is further complicated by
concurrently occurring disorders, the most frequent being major depressive
disorder and anxiety disorders. Previous research highlights that attentional
processing in posttraumatic stress disorder is associated with substantial
interference by emotional stimuli, a phenomenon also observed in these
concurrently occurring psychiatric disorders. However, the diagnosis-relevance of
this interference remains elusive. Here, we investigated the emotional Stroop
interference for diagnosis-related stimuli, generally negative stimuli, and
generally positive stimuli in posttraumatic stress disorder, major depressive
disorder and anxiety disorders.
METHODS: We performed a systematic database search in PubMed (Medline), Cochrane 
Library and PsycINFO on emotional Stroop performance in individuals with a
diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder, major depressive disorder or anxiety 
disorders separately. Mean effect sizes, standard errors and confidence intervals
were estimated for each clinical group and healthy control group comparison using
random effect models.
RESULTS: As compared to healthy control group, the posttraumatic stress disorder 
group displayed greater interference by diagnosis-related stimuli and positive
stimuli but not for generally negative stimuli. The major depressive disorder and
anxiety disorders groups showed greater interference by diagnosis-related and
negative stimuli, but not by positive stimuli. The age and sex had no significant
impact on interference.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings highlight the importance of diagnosis-relevant
information on attentional processing in all three clinical populations,
posttraumatic stress disorder, major depressive disorder and anxiety disorders.
Further, the impact of generally negative stimuli but not generally positive
stimuli in major depressive disorder and anxiety disorders indicate impaired
attentional bias for mood-congruent stimuli but not for general stimuli. Finally,
it remains to be studied whether the influence of generally positive stimuli in
posttraumatic stress disorder indicate that positive stimuli are perceived as
PTSD related.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0214998 
PMCID: PMC6456228
PMID: 30964902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148.Impact of a progressive stepped care approach in an improving access to
psychological therapies service: An observational study.

England's national Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) programme
advocates stepped care as its organizational delivery of psychological therapies 
to common mental health problems. There is limited evidence regarding the
efficacy of stepped care as a service delivery model, heterogeneity of definition
and differences in model implementation in both research and routine practice,
hence outcome comparison in terms of effectiveness of model is difficult. Despite
sound evidence of the efficacy of low intensity interventions there appears to be
a perpetuation of the notion that severity and complexity should only be treated 
by a high intensity intervention through the continuation of a stratified care
model. Yet no psychotherapy treatment is found to be more superior to another,
and not enough is known about what works for whom to aid the matching of
treatment decision. In the absence of understanding precise treatment factors
optimal for recovery, it may be useful to better understand the impact of a
service delivery model, and whether different models achieve different outcomes. 
This study aims to contribute to the discussion regarding the stepped care
definition and delivery, and explores the impact on clinical outcomes where
different types of stepped care have been implemented within the same service. An
observational cohort study analysed retrospective data (n = 16,723) over a 4 year
period, in a single IAPT service, where delivery changed from one type of stepped
care model to another. We compared the outcomes of treatment completers with a
stratified care model and a progression care model. We also explored the
assumption that patients who score severe on psychological measures, and
therefore are potentially complex, would achieve better outcomes in a stratified 
model. Outcomes in each model type were compared, alongside baseline factor
variables. A significant association was observed between a recovery outcome and 
model type, with patients 1.5 times more likely to recover in the progression
delivery model. The potential implications are that with a progression stepped
care model of service delivery, more patients can be treated with a lower
intensity intervention, even with initial severe presentations, ensuring that
only those that need high intensity CBT or equivalent are stepped up. This could 
provide services with an effective clinical model that is efficient and
potentially more cost effective.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0214715 
PMCID: PMC6456251
PMID: 30964883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149.Spiritual, religious, and existential concerns of cancer survivors in a secular
country with focus on age, gender, and emotional challenges.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to examine the associations between
self-reported spiritual/religious concerns and age, gender, and emotional
challenges among cancer survivors who have completed a 5-day rehabilitation
course at a rehabilitation center in Denmark (the former RehabiliteringsCenter
Dallund (RC Dallund)).
METHODS: The data stem from the so-called Dallund Scale which was adapted from
the NCCN Distress Thermometer and comprised questions to identify problems and
concerns of a physical, psychosocial, and spiritual/religious nature. Descriptive
statistics were performed using means for continuous variables and frequencies
for categorical variables. Odds ratios were calculated by logistic regression.
RESULTS: In total, 6640 participants filled in the questionnaire. Among
participants, 21% reported one or more spiritual/religious concerns, the most
reported concerns related to existence and guilt. Having one or more
spiritual/religious concerns was significantly associated with age (OR 0.88),
female gender (OR 1.38), and by those reporting emotional problems such as being 
without hope (OR 2.51), depressed (OR 1.49), and/or anxious (OR 1.95). Among
participants, 8% stated they needed help concerning spiritual/religious concerns.
CONCLUSIONS: Cancer patients, living in a highly secular country, report a
significant frequency of spiritual/religious and existential concerns. Such
concerns are mostly reported by the young, female survivors and by those
reporting emotional challenges. Spiritual/religious and existential concerns are 
often times tabooed in secular societies, despite being present in patients. Our 
results call for an increased systemic attention among health professionals to
these concerns, and a particular focus on identifying and meeting the
spiritual/religious and existential concerns of women, the young and those
challenged by hopelessness, depression, and anxiety.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-019-04775-4 
PMID: 30963295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Hippocampus and amygdalar volumes in patients with obsessive-compulsive
personality disorder.

OBJECTIVES: Moving from the point that there might be an association between the 
neuroanatomy of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and obsessive-compulsive
personality disorder, we decided to examine the volumes of hippocampus and
amygdala of patients with obsessive-compulsive personality disorder, which was
previously evaluated in OCD patients by us.
METHODS: Volumes of the hippocampus, and amygdala were measured by magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with obsessive-compulsive personality
disorder and healthy control subjects. Manual tracing was used.
RESULTS: We detected that the mean left and right sides of hippocampus and
amygdala volumes of the patients with obsessive-compulsive personality disorder
were smaller than those of the healthy controls.
CONCLUSION: Consequently, our present results suggest that hippocampal and
amygdalar structural abnormalities may be related to the neuroanatomy of
obsessive-compulsive personality disorder. However, it is required novel studies 
with larger sample.


DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2019.03.060 
PMID: 30962058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151.Volumetric MRI study of orbito-frontal cortex and thalamus in
obsessive-compulsive personality disorder.

OBJECTIVES: Obsessive compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) is currently thought
to bear a close relationship with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), and other 
compulsive disorders such as eating disorder and autistic spectrum disorder, as
well as with the personality disorders, focusing on some important dimensions
like phenomenology, heritability, environmental risk factors, comorbidity, course
of illness, neurocognitive endophenotypes, and treatment response. In the present
study, when we have taken into consideration the knowledge aforementioned, we
aimed to examine OFC and thalamus volumes in patients with OCPD.
METHODS: We comparatively measured orbito-frontal cortex (OFC) and thalamus
volumes of patients with OCPD and healthy control subjects.
RESULTS: Patients with OCPD had considerably smaller left and right OFC volumes
compared to those of healthy control subjects. We also found that thalamus
volumes of patients were statistically significantly greater than those of
healthy comparisons for both sides of region of interest.
CONCLUSIONS: We consider that volumetric alterations determined in the present
study may be involved in the pathophysiology of the OCPD, considering that OCPD
might be related to OCD spectrum disorders neuroanatomically.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2019.03.062 
PMID: 30962057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152.Hoarding: A meta-analysis of age of onset.

Hoarding disorder is present in 2-6% of the population and can have an immense
impact on the lives of patients and their families. Before its inclusion the
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th edition, pathological 
hoarding was often characterized as a symptom of obsessive-compulsive disorder,
and several different diagnostic assessment methods were used to identify and
characterize it. Although the age of onset of pathological hoarding is an
important epidemiological measure, as clarifying the age of onset of hoarding
symptoms may allow for early identification and implementation of evidence-based 
treatments before symptoms become clinically significant, the typical age of
onset of hoarding is still uncertain. To that end, this study is a systematic
review and meta-analysis of research published in English between the years 1900 
and 2016 containing information on age of onset of hoarding symptoms. Twenty-five
studies met inclusion criteria. The mean age of onset of hoarding symptoms across
studies was 16.7 years old, with evidence of a bimodal distribution of onset. The
authors conclude by discussing practice implications for early identification and
treatment.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22896 
PMID: 30958911  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153.An exploratory structural equation modeling bi-factor analytic approach to
uncovering what burnout, depression, and anxiety scales measure.

In this study, we addressed the ongoing debate about what burnout and depression 
scales measure by conducting an exploratory structural equation modeling (ESEM)
bifactor analysis. A sample of 734 U.S. teachers completed a survey that included
the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression scale (CES-D-10), the depression 
module of the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), the Generalized Anxiety
Disorder scale (GAD-7), and the Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI), which contains
emotional exhaustion (EE), depersonalization (DP), and (diminished) personal
accomplishment (PA) subscales. Job adversity and workplace support were
additionally measured for the purpose of a nomological network analysis. EE,
burnout's core, was more highly correlated with the depression and anxiety scales
than it was with DP and PA, even with controls for item content overlap. The
CES-D-10, PHQ-9, GAD-7, and EE subscale of the MBI were similarly related to job 
adversity and workplace support. ESEM bifactor analysis revealed that the
CES-D-10, PHQ-9, GAD-7, and EE items loaded highly on a general factor, which we 
labeled nonspecific psychological distress (NSPD). We conclude that depression,
anxiety, and EE scales reflect NSPD. DP items largely reflect two factors, NSPD
and depersonalization, about equally. PA items were found to be less related to
NSPD. With respect to the debate surrounding burnout-depression overlap, our
findings do not support the view that the burnout construct represents a syndrome
that consists of EE, DP, and diminished PA and excludes (or does not primarily
include) depressive symptoms. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights 
reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/pas0000721 
PMID: 30958024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154.Patient perspectives of Internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy for
psychosocial issues post spinal cord injury.

PURPOSE: Many individuals with a spinal cord injury (SCI) report significant
symptoms of depression and/or anxiety post-SCI; however, access to mental health 
services can be limited. The purpose of this study was to evaluate patient
perspectives on the acceptability of an 8-week guided Internet-delivered
cognitive behavior therapy (ICBT) course (Chronic Conditions Course) for people
with SCI. In particular, we sought to understand patient perceptions of
facilitators and barriers of engaging in ICBT and strengths and weaknesses of
ICBT program content.
METHOD: Semistructured interviews were conducted with 8 SCI patients after
completion of the ICBT course. The interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed
verbatim, and examined by means of thematic analysis by 2 coders.
RESULTS: Eight participants (mean age = 53.2 years; males = 50%; paraplegia =
67.5%) were interviewed. Four major themes emerged when examining facilitators to
completing the program: accessibility, flexibility, motivation, and guided
support. Barriers to completing the program included course timeframe and
physical health. Strengths of the course included effective skill development and
mental health prioritization. Suggested changes to the course included improved
breadth of case stories, development of extra resources, adjusting the course
timeframe to account for the SCI, and more support from the guide.
CONCLUSIONS: ICBT was overall highlighted as an acceptable method of receiving
care for people with SCI. The study provides direction for improving delivery of 
ICBT to ensure this method of treatment meets the needs of individuals with SCI. 
(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/rep0000276 
PMID: 30958020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155.Culture Vitamins - an Arts on Prescription project in Denmark.

AIMS: Four Arts on Prescription (AoP) projects are piloting in Denmark between
2016 and 2019. One of the local authorities delivering the project is Aalborg.
The AoP project 'Culture Vitamins' runs for 10 weeks and offers a variety of
cultural activities averaging 2.5 workshops per week for participants with mild
to moderate depression, stress or anxiety. The study aims to evaluate and explore
the potential mental health wellbeing benefits for the participants.
METHOD: A qualitative approach with semi-structured interviews was used and
included seven participants who were referred to the project by the local job
centre. A thematic approach was applied to analyse the data and a theoretical
lens of Salutogenesis was employed to explore the findings.
FINDINGS: The findings associated with mental health and the themes that emerged 
from the data described the participants' subjective experiences and were (1)
positive changes, (2) overcoming challenges and being in the 'space' and (3)
moving from self-critical to self-caring. The reported mental health benefits
were increased energy level, increased self-esteem, more joy in life, less panic 
attacks, increased motivation, a better understanding of own needs, an increased 
level of self-care and, in addition, some of the participants said that they felt
more aligned to the labour market.
CONCLUSIONS: The AoP project offered value and meaning for the participants and
can be seen as a motivating tool that created access to new experiences and
understandings by means of arts engagement. The 'Culture Vitamins' project can be
regarded as a catalyst for connecting with inner resources and unlocking some of 
the barriers that mental ill health has created. The experience has shifted the
participants' experience of themselves in the world and initiated their
motivation for the future. The 'Culture Vitamins' project offered a positive
contribution to public health challenges associated with stress, anxiety and
depression of individuals.

DOI: 10.1177/1757913919836145 
PMID: 30955476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156.Disrupted interhemispheric resting-state functional connectivity and structural
connectivity in first-episode, treatment-naïve generalized anxiety disorder.

BACKGROUND: Aberrant functional and structural connectivity are considered to be 
involved in the underlying neural mechanism of generalized anxiety disorder
(GAD). However, alterations in functional and structural interactions between the
bilateral hemispheres are rarely examined. The current study aimed to
characterized interhemispheric resting-state functional connectivity and white
matter microstructural integrity of the corpus callosum in patients with GAD.
METHODS: Resting-state Blood oxygen level-dependent and diffusion tensor image
were acquired for patients with GAD and healthy subjects. The two groups were
matched in age, gender, education years. The voxel-mirrored homotopic
connectivity (VMHC) of whole brain and white matter integrity of the corpus
callosum (CC) were compared between the two groups. Their correlations with
clinical measures were further performed.
RESULTS: Compare to controls, decreased resting-state VMHC were found in the
precentral gyrus, middle cingulate gyrus and insula/putamen in patients with GAD.
No regions of increased VMHC were detected in GAD. Compared to controls, GAD
patients showed decreased fractional anisotropy (FA) values in CC2. In GAD group,
further Pearson's correlation analyses showed that VMHC of the midcingulate gyrus
positively correlated with FA of CC2, FA of CC2 negatively correlated with
anxiety severity. Further mediation analyses demonstrated that attenuated VMHC in
bilateral midcingulate gyrus partly mediated the association between white matter
integrity of CC2 sub-region and anxiety severity.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggested impairment of interhemispheric coordination in
GAD. Moreover, disrupted interhemispheric connectivity correlated with anxiety
severity in GAD. Our findings provided a novel clue about the neural mechanism of
GAD, and may contribute to further deep exploration and treatment of GAD.
LIMITATIONS: The study was lack of comparison with non-GAD anxiety disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.082 
PMID: 30953893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157.Trajectories of self-reported sleep disturbance across inpatient psychiatric
treatment predict clinical outcome in comorbid major depressive disorder and
generalized anxiety disorder.

BACKGROUND: As there has been a demonstrated link between sleep disturbance and
suicide, the present study investigated the relationship between self-reported
sleep disturbance during inpatient psychiatric treatment and clinical outcomes at
discharge and six months post-discharge.
METHODS: Participants were 2,970 adults receiving care in a long-term inpatient
psychiatric hospital. Greater than 90% of inpatients reported at least mild sleep
disturbance throughout treatment. Group-based trajectory modeling was used to
determine patterns of sleep disturbance changes over time.
RESULTS: Participants fit into distinct categories based on their trajectories of
sleep problems across treatment: No Sleep Problems (10.3% of participants, no
sleep problems endorsed over the course of inpatient psychiatric treatment),
Resolvers (sleep problems completely resolved over the course of inpatient
psychiatric treatment; 10.6%), Non-Responders (did not respond to inpatient
psychiatric treatment; 35.7%) and Responders (sleep problems decreased but did
not fully resolve over the course of inpatient psychiatric treatment; 43.4%).
Individuals with comorbid major depressive disorder and generalized anxiety
disorder were significantly more likely to demonstrate higher rates of sleep
disturbance throughout inpatient psychiatric treatment and their sleep problems
did not respond to treatment as usual (Non-Responders). Further, patients in the 
Non-Responder group had significantly more suicidal ideation and worse clinical
outcomes (higher anxiety, more disability, and lower well-being) at discharge and
six months post-discharge, as well as were on more medication including hypnotics
throughout treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings indicate the urgent need to design and implement inpatient 
psychiatry sleep protocols to not only improve sleep and clinical outcomes, but
also reduce the risk for suicide post-discharge.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.069 
PMID: 30953891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158.Social anxiety as a precursor for depression: Influence of interpersonal
rejection and attention to emotional stimuli.

Social anxiety disorder (SAD) and major depressive disorder (MDD) are comorbid
conditions, and SAD confers risk for MDD. Biased attention and interpersonal
rejection are important for the development of SAD and MDD, but little research
has examined how these processes may lead to MDD. We hypothesized that
interpersonal rejection would result in SAD symptoms being associated with more
"depression-like" attention biases. Participants (n = 164) completed a measure of
SAD symptoms and an eye tracking task before and after a task in which they were 
randomized to be socially included or rejected. SAD symptoms, inclusion or
rejection condition, and the interaction term were entered into separate
hierarchical linear regressions predicting change in attention for five emotional
faces. Rejection condition significantly moderated the effects of SAD on change
in attention to sad, happy, and neutral faces. SAD predicted increased attention 
to sad faces and decreased attention to happy faces in the rejection condition,
but not in the inclusion condition. SAD predicted increased attention to neutral 
faces in the inclusion condition, but not in the rejection condition. There were 
no significant effects for angry or disgust. Results suggest that SAD symptoms
are associated with more depression-like attention biases in the context of
interpersonal rejection.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2019.04.001 
PMID: 30953874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159.Mental health in spouses of U.S. Gulf War veterans.

Veterans' spouses are at risk for mental distress and substance use. We examined 
long term psychological functioning in spouses from a national cohort of 1991
Gulf War era veterans. From clinical interviews, spouses of deployed veterans
(n = 488) did not have a greater prevalence of post-war mental disorders compared
to spouses of non-deployed veterans (n = 536); however, in couples that were
living together since the war, there was an increased risk of anxiety disorders
or any one disorder. On questionnaires, the impact varied but was most
consistently observed in more severe depression and greater functional impairment
in spouses of deployed compared to non-deployed veterans. If a veteran developed 
post-war anxious/depressive disorders or any one mental disorder, the matched
spouse was more likely to develop post-war anxious/depressive disorders or any
one mental disorder, respectively. Veteran combat exposure did not similarly
increase the risk of spouse post-war mental disorders. Greater spouse
self-reported symptomatology was observed in spouses of veterans with
anxious/depressive disorders even when controlling for deployment. In summary,
the war conferred greater risk for spouse mental disorders and distress for
spouses of veterans with mental health disorders, with some increased risk for
spouses of deployed veterans, especially in couples together since the war.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2019.03.043 
PMID: 30953873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Characteristics and dispositional determinants of psychiatric emergencies in a
University Hospital in Beirut.

Mental health problems are common in Lebanon, and so are psychiatric emergencies.
In order to show the characteristics of psychiatric emergencies in Lebanon along 
with their dispositional determinants, we conducted this retrospective,
single-center, chart-review study of patients who presented to the Emergency
Department between July 1, 2016 until December 31, 2016 and required an official 
psychiatrist consultation. Our sample included 195 patients of all age groups.
The most common diagnosis was depression (75 patients) followed by anxiety (61
patients). 107 patients (54.8%) required admission for adequate treatment;
however only 72 (67.3%) of those were actually admitted, and the rest (32.7%)
left the hospital against medical advice. Increased hospital admission was
associated with being a female (OR = 3.042), having family history of psychiatric
disease (OR = 2.040) and having suicidal ideations (OR = 12.949). In a country
that has inadequate health coverage, financial coverage can also be a determining
factor in whether or not patients get the admission they need.



DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2019.03.024 
PMID: 30951932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. The top 100 cited articles on Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD): A citation
analysis.

There is an exponential growth in the field of biomedical literature over the
years. Although numerous articles are published every year, few of them present
important conceptual advances in that particular field and are found to be
influential in the evolution of the field. The number of citations a publication 
receives can be used as a proxy marker of its impact on the field. Hence we aimed
to analyze the top cited articles (n = 100) on obsessive compulsive disorder
(OCD) as of July 2018. Google scholar database was searched using a freely
available software, Publish or Perish. Information related to number of
citations, publication title, publication year, name of the journal, country of
origin, author details, institution of origin, article type, and article design. 
The original research articles were further classified into
descriptive/epidemiology, mechanism, management, scale/measurement, imaging and
medical psychiatry. The citation classics suggest that clinical
trials/management, epidemiology and neuroimaging were the most researched areas
in the OCD research. These citation classics provide an important insight into
the historical developments, like the role of serotonin and caudate in OCD. This 
approach of citation analysis provides an opportunity to retrieve the classic
articles on OCD, and describes the trends in OCD research.



DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2019.03.025 
PMID: 30951931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. The Correlation Between Dry Eyes, Anxiety and Depression: The Sicca, Anxiety and 
Depression Study.

PURPOSE: To determine whether improvement in the severity of dry eye disease
(DED) symptoms correlates with improvement in anxiety and depression.
METHODS: This prospective interventional case series recruited 45 adults with
evidence of DED. Patients were administered the University of North Carolina Dry 
Eye Management Scale (DEMS), Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (GAD-7),
and Personal Health Questionnaire Depression Scale (PHQ-8) to evaluate the
severity of DED symptoms, anxiety, and depression, respectively. Standard of care
treatment was provided for patients for 3 to 6 months, followed by
re-administration of the DEMS, GAD-7, and PHQ-9 surveys. Statistical analysis was
performed to assess the relationships between changes in survey scores.
RESULTS: Participants had a mean age of 65.5 (SD, 13.3) years, and 37 (84.6%)
were women. Seven patients were lost to follow-up. DEMS and GAD-7 significantly
improved from 5.8 ± 1.8 to 4.6 ± 0.2.2 (P = 0.01) and from 5.6 ± 5.5 to 3.3 ± 4.6
(P = 0.05), respectively. Changes in DEMS correlated with changes in PHQ-8 (ρ =
0.3 P = 0.05), but not with changes in GAD-7 (ρ = 0.2 P = 0.3). Changes in DEMS
correlated with changes in both PHQ-8 and GAD-7 in the subgroup of patients
without prior depression or anxiety diagnosis (ρ = 0.6, P = 0.002; ρ = 0.4, P =
0.02). A multivariate analysis showed that the relationship between DEMS, PHQ-8, 
and GAD-7 was independent of a prior diagnosis of depression or anxiety and of
the presence of comorbidities.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a significant correlation between the severity of DED and
symptoms of depression and anxiety. Effective DED treatment could have a positive
impact on the symptoms of depression and anxiety.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0000000000001932 
PMID: 30950896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Deep brain stimulation of the internal capsule enhances human cognitive control
and prefrontal cortex function.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a circuit-oriented treatment for mental
disorders. Unfortunately, even well-conducted psychiatric DBS clinical trials
have yielded inconsistent symptom relief, in part because DBS' mechanism(s) of
action are unclear. One clue to those mechanisms may lie in the efficacy of
ventral internal capsule/ventral striatum (VCVS) DBS in both major depression
(MDD) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). MDD and OCD both involve deficits 
in cognitive control. Cognitive control depends on prefrontal cortex (PFC)
regions that project into the VCVS. Here, we show that VCVS DBS' effect is
explained in part by enhancement of PFC-driven cognitive control. DBS improves
human subjects' performance on a cognitive control task and increases theta
(5-8Hz) oscillations in both medial and lateral PFC. The theta increase predicts 
subjects' clinical outcomes. Our results suggest a possible mechanistic approach 
to DBS therapy, based on tuning stimulation to optimize these neurophysiologic
phenomena.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-09557-4 
PMCID: PMC6449385
PMID: 30948727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164.Double Blind Controlled Study of Adding Folic Acid to Fluoxetine in the Treatment
of OCD.

BACKGROUND: Folate is important for the synthesis of serotonin the
neurotransmitter which plays a main role in OCD. We, therefore, explored the
efficacy of folic acid as add on treatment to fluoxetine in a double blind study 
among patients with OCD.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A double blind, 12-week study comparing the efficacy of
folic acid as add on treatment and placebo in patients with OCD was conducted on 
thirty six (36) patients. Patients were randomly assigned to folic acid (5
mg/day) or placebo group in addition to fluoxetine (40 mg/day). After the
baseline assessment, on week 2, 4, 6, 8 and 12 assessments were performed by
using YBOCS, HAM-D, HAM-A and CGI-S. Serum folate, erythrocyte folate, serum
homocysteine and B12 levels were measured both baseline and the end of study.
RESULTS: A mixed model repeated measures ANCOVA on Y-BOCS scores were used to
determine the difference between folic acid and placebo groups. No significant
differences were found in the ratios of gender or in the mean age, serum folic
acid level, erythrocyte folate level, serum homocysteine level and serum B12
level between the treatment groups at the baseline. Consecutively scores
collected over six measurements on YBOCS, HAM-D, HAM-A and CGI showed
non-significant differences between folic acid and placebo groups.
CONCLUSION: None of the biological markers of one carbon metabolism were
associated with the change in YBOCS scores. It may be assumed that there is no
beneficial effect of folic acid addition to fluoxetine in the treatment of OCD.

DOI: 10.24869/psyd.2019.69 
PMID: 30948692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Effectiveness of a brief group psychological intervention for women in a
post-conflict setting in Pakistan: a single-blind, cluster, randomised controlled
trial.

BACKGROUND: Many women are affected by anxiety and depression after armed
conflict in low-income and middle-income countries, yet few scalable options for 
their mental health care exist. We aimed to establish the effectiveness of a
brief group psychological intervention for women in a conflict-affected setting
in rural Swat, Pakistan.
METHODS: In a single-blind, cluster, randomised, controlled trial, 34 community
clusters in two union councils of rural Swat, Pakistan, were randomised using
block permutation at a 1:1 ratio to intervention (group intervention with five
sessions incorporating behavioural strategies facilitated by non-specialists) or 
control (enhanced usual care) groups. Researchers responsible for identifying
participants, obtaining consent, enrolment, and outcome assessments were masked
to allocation. A community cluster was defined as neighbourhood of about 150
households covered by a lady health worker. Women aged 18-60 years who provided
written informed consent, resided in the participating cluster catchment areas,
scored at least 3 on the General Health Questionnaire-12, and at least 17 on the 
WHO Disability Assessment Schedule were recruited. The primary outcome, combined 
anxiety and depression symptoms, was measured 3 months after the intervention
with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). Modified
intention-to-treat analyses were done using mixed models adjusted for covariates 
and clusters defined a priori. The trial is registered with the Australian New
Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, number 12616000037404, and is now closed to new
participants.
FINDINGS: From 34 eligible community clusters, 306 women in the intervention
group and 306 women in the enhanced usual care (EUC) group were enrolled between 
Jan 11, 2016, and Aug 21, 2016, and the results of 288 (94%) of 306 women in the 
intervention group and 290 (95%) of 306 women in the EUC group were included in
the primary endpoint analysis. At 3 months, women in the intervention group had
significantly lower mean total scores on the HADS than women in the control group
(10·01 [SD 7·54] vs 14·75 [8·11]; adjusted mean difference [AMD] -4·53, 95% CI
-7·13 to -1·92; p=0·0007). Individual HADS anxiety scores were also significantly
lower in the intervention group than in the control group (5·43 [SD 4·18] vs 8·02
[4·69]; AMD -2·52, 95% CI -4·04 to -1·01), as were depression scores (4·59 [3·87]
vs 6·73 [3·91]; AMD -2·04, -3·19 to -0·88). No adverse events were reported in
either group.
INTERPRETATION: Our group psychological intervention resulted in clinically
significant reductions in anxiety and depressive symptoms at 3 months, and might 
be a feasible and effective option for women with psychological distress in rural
post-conflict settings.
FUNDING: WHO through a grant from the Office for Foreign Disaster Assistance.



DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)32343-2 
PMID: 30948286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166.Reduced Sensitivity to Non-Fear-Related Stimulus Changes in Panic Disorder.

Panic disorder (PD) is associated with increased body vigilance and reduced
cognitive resources directed at non-fear-related stimuli, particularly in the
absence of stimulus-rich environments. To date, only few studies have
investigated whether this deficit in PD is reflected in reduced mismatch
negativity (MMN), an event-related potential indexing preattentive sensitivity to
unexpected stimulus changes. We tested 35 patients affected by PD and 42 matched 
healthy controls in an oddball paradigm, using frequency and duration deviant
stimuli to measure auditory MMN. PD patients displayed reduced duration MMN
amplitudes in comparison to healthy controls. No group differences were detected 
for duration MMN latency, as well as frequency MMN indices. Results support the
notion of reduced processing of non-fear-related stimuli in PD patients,
particularly with regard to the preattentive processing of sound duration
deviants. Additionally, our findings are in line with clinical studies reporting 
divergent deficits in preattentive processing of frequency and duration deviants.



DOI: 10.1159/000498867 
PMID: 30947222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167.Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: Puzzles and Prospects.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder is a severe and disabling psychiatric disorder that
presents several challenges for neuroscience. Recent advances in its genetic and 
developmental causation, as well as its neuropsychological basis, are reviewed.
Hypotheses concerning an imbalance between goal-directed and habitual behavior
together with neural correlates in cortico-striatal circuitry are evaluated and
contrasted with metacognitive theories. Treatments for obsessive-compulsive
disorder (OCD) tend to be of mixed efficacy but include psychological,
pharmacological, and surgical approaches, the underlying mechanisms of which are 
still under debate. Overall, the prospects for new animal models and an
integrated understanding of the pathophysiology of OCD are considered in the
context of dimensional psychiatry.


DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2019.01.046 
PMID: 30946823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168.Study of depression and anxiety in patients with asthma and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.

BACKGROUND: Suggested treatment of patients with COPD and astma requires
promotion and psychological dimensions of patients.
AIM: Primary objective of this study was to determine frequency of developing
anxiety and depression in patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) in relation to gender, age and socioeconomic status and to
evaluate possible differences between patients with and without high level of
anxiety and depression and to find correlation between psychological aspects and 
disease itself.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: This study included a total of 120 subjects: 60 patients
with asthma and 60 patients with COPD. Data were collected using a
socio-demographic questionnaire for general information on subjects, standardized
Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI).
RESULTS: Significant difference was found in the anxiety level in these two
groups. Average value for the patients with COPD was 43 (15) and for the patients
with asthma 37.5 (15.7). Statistically significant difference was also reported
for the depression level among females. In female patients with COPD that level
was 13.5 (14.7) and in female patients with asthma 7.5 (11). There is a
correlation between anxiety and depression in patients with COPD and asthma,
especially among women.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that asthma and COPD are a significant stressor
with a risk of developing anxiety and depression.


PMID: 30946729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169.Anabolic androgenic steroid dependence is associated with impaired emotion
recognition.

RATIONALE: Illicit use of anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) has grown into a
serious public health concern throughout the Western World. AAS use is associated
with adverse medical, psychological, and social consequences. Around 30% of AAS
users develop a dependence syndrome with sustained use despite adverse side
effects. AAS dependence is associated with a high frequency of intra- and
interpersonal problems, and it is central to identify factors related to the
development and maintenance of dependence.
METHODS: The present study investigated the ability to recognize emotion from
biological motion. The emotional biological motion task was administered to male 
AAS dependent users (AAS dependents; n = 45), AAS non-dependent users (AAS
non-dependents; n = 38) and a comparison-group of non-using weightlifters
(non-users; n = 69).
RESULTS: Multivariate analysis of variance showed a general impairment in emotion
recognition in AAS dependents, compared to the non-using weightlifters, whereas
no significant impairment was observed in AAS non-dependents. Furthermore, AAS
dependents showed impaired recognition of fearful stimuli compared to both AAS
non-dependents and non-using weightlifters. The between-group effect remained
significant after controlling for Intelligence Quotient (IQ), past 6 months of
non-AAS drug use, antisocial personality problems, anxiety, and depression.
CONCLUSION: AAS dependents show impaired emotion recognition from body movement, 
fear in particular, which could potentially contribute to higher frequency of
interpersonal problems and antisocial behaviors in this population.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-019-05239-7 
PMID: 30941469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170.Prevalence and predictive factors of psychological morbidity following facial
injury: a prospective study of patients attending a maxillofacial outpatient
clinic within a major UK city.

Adults presenting to maxillofacial surgery services are at high risk of
psychological morbidity. This study examined the prevalence of depression,
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), anxiety, drug and alcohol use, and
appearance-related distress among maxillofacial trauma outpatients over
medium-term follow-up. It also explored socio-demographic and injury-related
variables associated with psychological distress to inform targeted psychological
screening protocols for maxillofacial trauma services. Significant associations
were found between level of distress at time of injury and number of traumatic
life events with levels of depression at 3 months. No significant associations
were found between predictor variables and PTSD at 3 months, or with any
psychiatric diagnosis at 6 months. The lack of evidence for an identifiable
subgroup of patients who were at higher risk of psychological distress indicated 
that routine screening of all maxillofacial trauma outpatients should be offered 
in order to best respond to their mental health needs. The feasibility of the
medical team facilitating this is challenging and should ideally be undertaken by
psychologists integrated within the MDT. This study led to the funding of a
clinical psychologist to provide collaborative care with the maxillofacial
surgeons, resulting in brief assessment and treatment to over 600 patients in the
first year of the service.
Publisher: Los adultos que consultan en los servicios de cirugía máxilo-facial
tienen un alto riesgo de presentar morbilidad psicológica. Este estudio examinó
la prevalencia de depresión, trastorno por estrés postraumático (TEPT), ansiedad,
uso de alcohol y drogas, y distrés relacionado con la apariencia entre los
pacientes con trauma máxilofacial en un seguimiento ambulatorio de mediano plazo.
También se exploraron variables socio-demográficas y otras relacionadas con las
lesiones que se asocian con distrés psicológico para contar con protocolos de
evaluación psicológica orientados a los servicios de trauma máxilo-facial. Se
encontraron asociaciones significativas entre el nivel de distrés al momento de
la lesión y el número de acontecimientos traumáticos con los niveles de depresión
a los tres meses. En cambio, no hubo asociaciones significativas entre las
variables predictoras y el TEPT a los tres meses, o con algún diagnóstico
psiquiátrico a los seis meses. La falta de evidencia de un subgrupo identificable
de pacientes que estuvieron en alto riesgo de distrés psicológico indicaron que
se debe ofrecer la evaluación de rutina a todos los pacientes ambulatorios con
trauma máxilo-facial para responder mejor a sus necesidades de salud mental.
Constituye un desafío configurar un equipo médico que permita esto y lo ideal es 
que se forme un equipo multidisciplinario en que estén integrados psicólogos.
Este estudio permitió el financiamiento de un psicólogo clínico, quien aportó
atención en colaboración con los cirujanos máxilo-faciales, lo que se tradujo en 
una evaluación breve y el tratamiento de más de 600 pacientes durante el primer
año de funcionamiento del servicio.Publisher: Les adultes hospitalisés des
services de chirurgie maxillo-faciale sont à risque élevé de morbidité
psychologique. Cette étude analyse la prévalence de la dépression, du syndrome de
stress post-traumatique (SSPT), de l'anxiété, de la consommation de drogues et
d'alcool ainsi que de la détresse liée à l'apparence chez des patients ayant subi
un traumatisme maxillo-facial, avec un suivi à moyen terme en ambulatoire. Les
variables socio-démographiques et liées à la lésion ainsi que la détresse
psychologique sont également examinées afin de renseigner des protocoles ciblés
de dépistage psychologique pour les services de chirurgie maxillo-faciale. Le
niveau de détresse au moment de la lésion et le nombre d'événements traumatiques 
de la vie sont significativement associés aux niveaux de dépression à 3 mois.
Aucune association significative n'a été trouvée entre les variables prédictives 
et le SSPT à 3 mois ou un diagnostic psychiatrique quel qu'il soit à 6 mois.
L'identification d'un sous-groupe de patients à risque élevé de détresse
psychologique est difficile : le dépistage de routine de tous les patients suivis
en ambulatoire après chirurgie maxillo-faciale devrait donc être proposé afin de 
mieux répondre à leurs besoins en santé mentale. Créer l'équipe médicale qui le
permettrait est compliqué ; idéalement, cette tâche devrait être confiée à des
psychologues au sein d'une équipe pluridisciplinaire. Grâce à l'étude, le poste
d'un psychologue clinicien a été financé, qui travaille en collaboration avec les
chirurgiens maxillo-faciaux. C'est ainsi que plus de 600 patients ont été évalués
et traités au cours de la première année.

PMCID: PMC6436951
PMID: 30936771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Importance of knowledge in the behavioural treatment of panic disorder.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) for panic disorder encourages
patients to learn about and make changes to thoughts and behaviour patterns that 
maintain symptoms of the disorder. Instruments to assess whether or not patients 
understand therapy content do not currently exist.
AIMS: The aim of this study was to examine if increases within specific knowledge
domains of panic disorder were related to improvement in panic symptoms following
an intensive 2-day panic treatment.
METHOD: Thirty-nine Veterans enrolled in an intensive weekend panic disorder
treatment completed knowledge measures immediately before the first session of
therapy and at the end of the last day of therapy. Four panic disorder experts
evaluated items and reached consensus on subscales. Subscales were reduced
further to create psychometrically sound subscales of catastrophic
misinterpretation (CM), behaviours (BE), and self-efficacy (SE). A simple
regression analysis was conducted to determine whether increased knowledge
predicted symptom change at a 3-month follow-up assessment.
RESULTS: The overall knowledge scale was reduced to three subscales BE (n = 7),
CM (n = 13) and SE (n = 8) with good internal consistency. Veterans' knowledge of
panic disorder improved from pre- to post-treatment. Greater increase in scores
on the knowledge assessment predicted lower panic severity scores at a 3-month
follow-up. A follow-up analysis using the three subscales as predictors showed
that only changes in CM significantly contributed to the prediction.
CONCLUSIONS: In an intensive therapy format, reduction in panic severity was
related to improved knowledge overall, but particularly as a result of fewer
catastrophic misinterpretations.

DOI: 10.1017/S135246581900002X 
PMID: 30935431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Generalized Anxiety Disorder.

Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a common and disabling illness that is
often underdiagnosed and undertreated. Patients with GAD are at increased risk
for suicide as well as cardiovascular-related events and death. Most patients can
be diagnosed and managed by primary care physicians. Symptoms include chronic,
pervasive anxiety and worry accompanied by nonspecific physical and psychological
symptoms (restlessness, fatigue, difficulty concentrating, irritability, muscle
tension, or sleep disturbances). Effective treatments include psychotherapy
(often cognitive behavioral therapy) and pharmacotherapy, such as selective
serotonin reuptake inhibitors and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors.

DOI: 10.7326/AITC201904020 
PMID: 30934083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173.The Course of Adverse Events in Venlafaxine XR Treatment in Generalized Anxiety
Disorder.

PURPOSE: The time course of adverse events is an important factor for patient
management. Clinicians are better able to prepare patients for specific adverse
events, which leads to better treatment adherence.
METHODS: Adverse events were followed longitudinally for 6 months during the
open-label phase of a relapse prevention trial with 264 patients with generalized
anxiety disorder. Adverse events were assessed at each treatment visit using a
21-item checklist. Logistic regression modeling, continuation ratio modeling, and
hierarchical linear modeling were used to determine whether adverse events led to
early attrition and whether adverse events decreased in enrolled patients over
time.
FINDINGS: Adverse events were found to have decreased highly significantly during
treatment. A highly significant race effect was found in that whites had a
significantly higher adverse event rate than did nonwhites. Early attrition rates
were predicted by presence of nausea and fatigue, late attrition by dizziness,
nervousness, and sexual dysfunction.
IMPLICATIONS: Our findings provide information for clinicians on the course of
adverse events over treatment, useful to prepare patients for treatment
adherence.

DOI: 10.1097/JCP.0000000000001027 
PMID: 30932946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Incidence and clinical correlates of anger attacks in Chinese patients with
obsessive-compulsive disorder.

OBJECTIVE: Anger attacks have been observed in patients with obsessive-compulsive
disorder (OCD), often triggered by obsessional triggers. However, few studies
have reported the clinical characteristics and correlates of anger attacks among 
Chinese patients with OCD.
METHODS: A total of 90 adults with a primary diagnosis of OCD, ranging from 15 to
78 years old, participated in the study. Participants were administered the Rage 
Outbursts and Anger Rating Scale (ROARS), Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive
Scale-Second Edition, and Brown Assessment of Beliefs Scale by a trained
clinician. Patients completed the Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory-Revised and
Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-21.
RESULTS: A total of 31.3% of participants reported anger outbursts in the past
week, and ROARS scores had no significant correlation with age, duration of
illness, OCD severity, depression, or stress. However, ROARS scores were
negatively related to education level, and positively related to obsessing
symptoms and anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that anger attacks are relatively common in
Chinese patients with OCD. The severity of anger attacks is related to
educational level, obsessing symptoms, and anxiety, which may be a latent
variable reflecting executive functioning and emotion regulation skills.

DOI: 10.1631/jzus.B1800450 
PMCID: PMC6454311
PMID: 30932381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175.Psoriasis and male sexuality.

Since sexual satisfaction is a key factor in quality-of-life scores, the aim of
this review article is to examine current knowledge concerning the impact on male
sexuality of psoriasis, particularly genital psoriasis. Risk factors for sexual
dysfunction, and more specifically erectile dysfunction, demonstrated to date
include severity of psoriasis, genital psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, smoking,
psychological disorders (anxiety-depression), cardiovascular comorbidities and
side effects of psoriasis treatments. Studies evaluating the burden of genital
psoriasis on male sexuality are contradictory: while the link between genital
psoriasis and global sexual functioning has been clearly established in relation 
to question 9 of the DLQI, discrepancies exist between the scoring systems used
concerning sexual satisfaction. Finally, psoriasis patients have expressed a wish
to receive more care from their dermatologist in terms of their genital psoriasis
and its impact on their sexual activity.



DOI: 10.1016/j.annder.2019.01.021 
PMID: 30928124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176.A composite measure of sleep health predicts concurrent mental and physical
health outcomes in adolescents prone to eveningness.

BACKGROUND: Sleep health can be characterized using multiple dimensions,
including regularity, satisfaction, alertness, timing, efficiency, and duration. 
This study provides a preliminary derivation of a Sleep Health Composite score in
adolescents with eveningness chronotype and examined its associations with mental
and physical health outcomes.
METHODS: Participants were 176 adolescents (mean age 14.77 years, 58% female) who
participated in a randomized controlled trial examining the Transdiagnostic Sleep
and Circadian intervention. At study entry, the sample was characterized by
evening circadian preference, later bedtime, and increased risk in 1 of 5 health 
domains (emotional, cognitive, behavioral, social, and physical). The Sleep
Health Composite was derived using 7-day sleep diary and self-report rating
scales. Each dimension was categorized as "good" or "poor" using cut-offs
informed by prior studies and expert consensus. Mental and physical health
outcomes were assessed using self-report rating scales, semistructured clinical
interviews, parent report, or biometric measurement.
RESULTS: Sleep duration and satisfaction dimensions were most commonly rated as
poor. Greater sleep health, as indexed by greater Sleep Health Composite score,
was concurrently associated with lower risk in emotional, cognitive, and social
domains, as well as fewer physical symptoms and reduced odds for obesity and
current mood or anxiety disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: Sleep health is an important correlate of mental and physical health
outcomes in adolescents. The Sleep Health Composite has potential application as 
an outcome measure in treatment studies of sleep and circadian problems.


DOI: 10.1016/j.sleh.2018.11.009 
PMCID: PMC6452900 [Available on 2020-04-01]
PMID: 30928117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177.Escitalopram related edema in a patient with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Advanced Practice Providers recognize and treat the most common side effects
patients bring to our attention with the use of antidepressants, including
insomnia, weight gain, emotional flattening, and sexual side effects.
(https://www.psychcongress.com/article/top-5-side-effects-psychotropics-and-how-m
anage-them). We are, however, less intuitive and competent at picking up the high
risk and rare, problem prone side effects our patients may experience related to 
the medications we prescribe, particularly in the more medically complex
patients. In addition, the medically complex patient may mask a psychiatric
concern as the psychiatric provider finds themselves caught up in the ambiguity
of numerous somatic symptoms a patient presents with versus the psychiatric
concerns that bear our attention. Autoimmune disorders often blur this line all
too well affecting both psychiatric and physical well-being.



DOI: 10.1016/j.apnu.2018.11.007 
PMID: 30927992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178.Reaction time variability and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: is
increased reaction time variability specific to attention-deficit/hyperactivity
disorder? Testing predictions from the default-mode interference hypothesis.

Increased reaction time variability (RTV) is one of the most replicable
behavioral correlates of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
However, this may not be specific to ADHD but a more general marker of
psychopathology. Here we compare RT variability in individuals with ADHD and
those with other childhood internalizing and externalizing conditions both in
terms of standard (i.e., the standard deviation of reaction time) and alternative
indices that capture low-frequency oscillatory patterns in RT variations over
time thought to mark periodic lapses of attention in ADHD. A total of 667
participants (6-12 years old) were classified into non-overlapping diagnostic
groups consisting of children with fear disorders (n = 91), distress disorders
(n = 56), ADHD (n = 103), oppositional defiant or conduct disorder (ODD/CD;
n = 40) and typically developing controls (TDC; n = 377). We used a simple
two-choice reaction time task to measure reaction time. The strength of
oscillations in RTs across the session was extracted using spectral analyses.
Higher RTV was present in ADHD compared to all other disorder groups, effects
that were equally strong across all frequency bands. Interestingly, we found that
lower RTV to characterize ODD/CD relative to TDC, a finding that was more
pronounced at lower frequencies. In general, our data support RTV as a specific
marker of ADHD. RT variation across time in ADHD did not show periodicity in a
specific frequency band, not supporting that ADHD RTV is the product of
spontaneous periodic lapses of attention. Low-frequency oscillations may be
particularly useful to differentiate ODD/CD from TDC.

DOI: 10.1007/s12402-018-0257-x 
PMID: 30927230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179.Assessing for Mood and Anxiety Disorders in Parents of Clinically-Referred
Children: Laying the Foundation for a Family-Based Approach to Mental Health in
Singapore.

INTRODUCTION: Family history of psychopathology is a risk factor for mood and
anxiety disorders in children, but little is known about rates of parental
psychopathology among treatment-seeking youth with affective disorders in the
Asia Pacific region. This study examined patterns of emotional and behavioural
problems in parents of clinically-referred youth in Singapore. We hypothesised
that parents would have higher rates of affective disorders compared to the
Singapore national prevalence rate of 12%.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, 47 families were recruited 
from affective disorders and community-based psychiatry programmes run by a
tertiary child psychiatry clinic. All children had a confirmed primary clinical
diagnosis of depression or an anxiety disorder. Parents completed the Mini
International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) to assess for lifetime mood and
anxiety disorders. They also completed the Adult Self Report (ASR) and Adult
Behavior Checklist (ABCL) to assess current internalising and externalising
symptoms.
RESULTS: Consistent with our hypothesis, 38.5% of mothers and 10.5% of fathers
reported a lifetime mood and anxiety disorder. Nearly 1/3 of mothers had
clinical/subclinical scores on current internalising and externalising problems. 
A similar pattern was found for internalising problems among fathers, with a
slightly lower rate of clinical/subclinical externalising problems.
CONCLUSION: Our findings are consistent with previous overseas studies showing
elevated rates of affective disorders among parents - particularly mothers - of
children seeking outpatient psychiatric care. Routine screening in this
population may help to close the current treatment gap for adults with mood and
anxiety disorders.


PMID: 30926977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180.Joint hypermobility is a marker for anxiety in children.

BACKGROUND: Joint hypermobility syndrome (JHS) has been found to be associated
with anxiety disorders in clinical and nonclinical populations, but to date no
studies have evaluated this association in children. The main goal of this study 
is to evaluate JHS along with anxiety, somatic and behavioral measures in
children to clarify if JHS is associated with any of these variables in this age 
range.
METHODS: A sample of 160 children (74 girls and 86 boys) ranging from 5 to 17 o
were recruited from a Child-Adolescent Mental Health clinic to participate in the
study. All children underwent a diagnostic interview using the Mini International
Neuropsychiatric Interview for Children and Adolescents. Instruments used include
the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL), the Screening Questionnaire to detect
Hypermobility (SQ-CH) and the Children Manifested Anxiety Scale (CMAS-R).
RESULTS: The prevalence of JHS in this sample was 22%, and this was significantly
higher in girls (31%) than in boys (14%) (χ2=6.83; P=.001). The JHS group scored 
significantly higher in the CMAS-R total anxiety (F=4.51; P=.035), CMAS-R
Physiological anxiety (F=7.19; P=.008) and the CBCL somatic complaints (F=8.46;
0.004) and regression analyses showed that these 3 variables were predictors of
JHS (χ2=36.77; P<.001; r2=0.22). The JHS group also scored higher in some
behavioral measures.
CONCLUSION: Children with JHS have higher frequency of anxiety disorders and
higher intensity of physiological anxiety, somatic complaints, and therefore, JHS
might be used as marker for this anxiety phenotype in youngsters.


DOI: 10.1016/j.rpsm.2019.01.004 
PMID: 30926372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Vestibular function in panic disorder patients: a vestibular-evoked myogenic
potentials and video head impulse test study.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the function of the utriculus and sacculus and their central
connections by ocular and cervical vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials (oVEMPs 
and cVEMPs), and the function of high-frequency VOR of the semicircular canals by
video head impulse test (vHIT) in patients with panic disorder (PD).
METHODS: Forty-eight patients with PD (21 with agoraphobia) and 20 sex- and
age-matched healthy controls took part in the investigation. The vestibulo-ocular
reflex (VOR) gains and latencies and peak-to-peak amplitudes of sound-induced
VEMPs were measured and compared with those of healthy controls.
RESULTS: Any statistical differences in the parameters of cVEMP and oVEMP
responses between both PD patients groups and between patients and healthy
controls were not observed. Also, significant differences between VOR in patients
and healthy controls were not found. The VOR gain, bilaterally in the three
semicircular canals was within normal limits (0.8-1.2) for 67%, and higher for
33% of the patients with PD. Overt and covert saccades were not observed. The
relationship between higher VOR gains and the increase of postural instability
when a sensory conflict exists (standing on foam pad with eyes closed) for
patients with PD was established.
CONCLUSION: The VEMPs and vHIT tests demonstrated that there is no evidence of
hypofunction of the semicircular canals in the high-frequency spectrum of VOR
functioning. Nor are there any indications of impairment of the otolith system in
patients with PD, regardless of their subjective vestibular sensations. The
findings of the current study confirm the proposed link between anxiety, panic
symptoms and postural instability in PD patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-019-05398-5 
PMID: 30923888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182.Flight Anxiety Reported from 1986 to 2015.


BACKGROUND: Fear of flying is one of the most common phobias. It hinders people
in performing their work and hampers family relations. Even though flight traffic
has increased, there are new fears. Valid studies are needed to answer whether
there have been changes in the prevalence of flight anxiety, are there sex
differences in relation to fear of flying, use of alcohol, and tranquilizers,
which situations cause the most flight anxiety, and whether the above factors
have changed compared to a similar study from 1986.METHODS: A questionnaire was
distributed to a representative random sample of the Norwegian population (N =
5500), where 36% answered. To assess flight anxiety across the time period, we
used similar instruments to those we used in 1986.RESULTS: The prevalence of an
assumed flight phobia decreased from 8% in 1986 to 3% in 2015. The percentage of 
those reported to never fly had decreased from 5% in 1986 to 0.5% in 2015. There 
were 11.0% who always used alcohol in 1986 and 7.5% in 2015 and 3% and 2%,
respectively, always used tranquillizers. More women reported being afraid of
both flying and other situations compared to men. Turbulence, unknown sounds, and
fear of terror attacks caused the most anxiety.DISCUSSION: Flight anxiety still
affects a considerable proportion of the Norwegian population and more women than
men report that they are afraid of flying. However, in spite of methodology,
people are significantly less afraid of flying than in 1986.Grimholt TK,
Bonsaksen T, Schou-Bredal I, Heir T, Lerdal A, Skogstad L, Ekeberg Ø. Flight
anxiety reported from 1986 to 2015. Aerosp Med Hum Perform. 2019; 90(4):384-388.

DOI: 10.3357/AMHP.5125.2019 
PMID: 30922426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183.Cognitive behavioral therapy for childhood anxiety disorders: What happens to
comorbid mood and behavioral disorders? A systematic review.

BACKGROUND: High rates of comorbidity among children and adolescents with anxiety
disorders are widely documented. To date the question of what happens to comorbid
disorders upon treatment of the primary anxiety disorder has received little
attention and the optimal treatment strategy for cases with comorbidity remains
to be determined.
OBJECTIVES: This review examines the literature on the impact of
disorder-specific CBT on comorbid mood and behavioral disorders in young people
with a primary anxiety disorder.
SEARCH METHODS: PsycINFO, EMBASE, MEDLINE and the Cochrane Library were
systematically searched using predefined selection criteria. Two reviewers
independently assessed the relevance of studies, obtained data using a data
extraction form and undertook methodological quality analysis.
RESULTS: Ten studies (1647 children in total) were included in the review. All
studies demonstrated positive outcomes for CBT focused on the primary anxiety
disorder on untargeted comorbid mood and/or externalising disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest CBT focused on the primary anxiety disorder
successfully reduces comorbid mood and/or behavioral diagnoses and symptoms of
these co-occurring clinical diagnoses. Therefore, the implementation of
disorder-specific CBT for the primary disorder is a valid alternative to
transdiagnostic interventions and is recommended in cases of comorbidity in
children and adolescents with a primary anxiety disorder.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.041 
PMID: 30921598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184.Allergies, asthma, and psychopathology in a nationally-representative US sample.

BACKGROUND: Symptoms of depressed mood and anxiety have been associated with
immune dysregulation and atopic disorders, however it is unclear whether this
relationship spans other forms of psychopathology. The objective of this study
was to use a large, population-based sample to examine the association between
several common psychiatric conditions and two atopic disorders: seasonal
allergies and asthma. This study also examined whether comorbidity between
psychiatric disorders confounded the relationship between atopy and each
psychiatric disorder.
METHODS: Data come from the Comprehensive Psychiatric Epidemiology Surveys, a
nationally-representative sample of US adults (N = 10,309). Lifetime history of
major depressive disorder (MDD), generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), panic
disorder (PD), and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) was assessed using the
Composite International Diagnostic Inventory. History of seasonal allergies and
asthma were assessed by self-report. Weighted logistic regression was used to
evaluate the association between allergies and asthma and psychopathology.
Psychiatric comorbidities were also examined as potential confounders.
RESULTS: Approximately 36.6% had a history of allergies and 11.5% a history of
asthma. Seasonal allergies were positively associated with odds of MDD (Odds
ratio (OR): 1.24, 95% Confidence Interval (CI): 1.06-1.46), GAD (OR: 1.54
(1.28-1.84)), PD (OR: 1.54 (1.24-1.91)), and PTSD (OR: 1.32 (1.09-1.59)). Asthma 
was not significantly associated with any psychiatric disorder. All significant
associations persisted after adjustment for psychiatric comorbidities.
LIMITATIONS: Limitations include self-reporting of atopic disorder status and of 
all disorder ages of onset.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms the association between MDD and PD and seasonal 
allergies, and extends this relationship to GAD and PTSD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.026 
PMID: 30921596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185.Association between induced abortion, spontaneous abortion, and infertility
respectively and the risk of psychiatric disorders in 57,770 women followed in
gynecological practices in Germany.

AIM: Our goal was to analyze the association between induced abortion,
spontaneous abortion, and infertility respectively and the risk of psychiatric
disorders in 57,770 women followed in gynecological practices in Germany.
METHODS: This case-control study was based on data from the Disease Analyzer
database (IQVIA). Women with a first documentation of depression, anxiety,
adjustment disorder, or somatoform disorder in one of 281 gynecological practices
in Germany between January 2013 and December 2017 were included in this study
(index date). Controls without depression, anxiety, adjustment disorder, or
somatoform disorder were matched (1:1) to cases by age, index year, and
physician. A total of 57,770 women were included in the present study. The main
outcome of the study was the risk of psychiatric disorders (i.e. depression,
anxiety, adjustment disorder, somatoform disorder) as a function of induced
abortion, spontaneous abortion, and infertility.
RESULTS: The mean age was 29.2 years (SD = 6.4 years) in women with and without
psychiatric disorders. Induced abortion (odds ratios [ORs] ranging from 1.75 to
2.01), spontaneous abortion (ORs ranging from 2.16 to 2.60), and infertility
(OR = 2.13) were positively associated with the risk of psychiatric disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: A positive relationship between induced abortion, spontaneous
abortion, and infertility respectively and psychiatric disorders was observed in 
gynecological practices in Germany.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.060 
PMID: 30921593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Physical activity as prognostic factor for bipolar disorder: An 18-month
prospective study.

INTRODUCTION: Exercise is an adjuvant therapy indicated for various psychiatric
disorders. However, prospective studies in patients with bipolar disorder (BD)
are scarce and with uncertain conclusions. This study aims to evaluate physical
activity as a prognostic factor for BD, analyzing relationship with levels of
anxiety, functionality, sleep, mood episodes and hospitalizations.
METHODS: Three psychiatrists interviewed 80 BD outpatients in euthymia, referred 
from four different institutions in Brazil. In this moment, they evaluated the
intensity of physical activities using the International Physical Activity
Questionnaire (IPAQ) - short form. They reevaluated patients and reviewed medical
records monthly for 18 months to identify mood episodes and psychiatric
hospitalizations.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight patients (47.5%) were physically inactive (or sedentary)
and 42 (52.5%) active. Physically active patients had lower Body Mass Index
(p = 0.006), waist circumference (p = 0.002), lower levels of anxiety (p = 0.032)
and less insomnia (p = 0.001). Sedentary individuals revealed poorer global
functioning (p < 0.001) and in all domains: autonomy (p < 0.001), occupational
functioning (p = 0.008), cognitive functioning (p = 0.013), capacity of managing 
the finances (p = 0.012), interpersonal relationships (p = 0.011) and leisure
time (p = 0.001). Less activity was associated with more mood episodes
(p = 0.042) and psychiatric hospitalizations (p = 0.043) over 18 months.
CONCLUSION: This study suggested physical activity as a good prognostic factor
for BD during euthymia. This reinforces the need to encourage this practice in
clinical settings. Future prospective surveys with longer duration using
objective instruments are proposed.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.061 
PMID: 30921592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Benzodiazepines versus placebo for panic disorder in adults.

BACKGROUND: Panic disorder is characterised by recurrent unexpected panic attacks
consisting of a wave of intense fear that reaches a peak within a few minutes.
Panic disorder is a common disorder, with an estimated lifetime prevalence of 1% 
to 5% in the general population and a 7% to 10% prevalence in primary care
settings. Its aetiology is not fully understood and is probably
heterogeneous.Panic disorder is treated with psychological and pharmacological
interventions, often used in combination. Although benzodiazepines are frequently
used in the treatment of panic disorder, guidelines recommend antidepressants,
mainly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), as first-line treatment
for panic disorder, particularly due to their lower incidence of dependence and
withdrawal reaction when compared to benzodiazepines. Despite these
recommendations, benzodiazepines are widely used in the treatment of panic
disorder, probably because of their rapid onset of action.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy and acceptability of benzodiazepines versus
placebo in the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia in adults.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Common Mental Disorders Controlled
Trials Register (CCMDCTR Studies and References), the Cochrane Central Register
of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (1950-), Embase (1974-), and PsycINFO
(1967-) up to 29 May 2018. We handsearched reference lists of relevant papers and
previous systematic reviews. We contacted experts in the field for supplemental
data.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All double-blind (blinding of patients and personnel)
controlled trials randomising adults with panic disorder with or without
agoraphobia to benzodiazepine or placebo.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently checked the
eligibility of studies and extracted data using a standardised form. Data were
then entered data into Review Manager 5 using a double-check procedure.
Information extracted included study characteristics, participant
characteristics, intervention details, settings, and outcome measures in terms of
efficacy, acceptability, and tolerability.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 24 studies in the review with a total of 4233
participants, of which 2124 were randomised to benzodiazepines and 1475 to
placebo. The remaining 634 participants were randomised to other active
treatments in three-arm trials. We assessed the overall methodological quality of
the included studies as poor. We rated all studies as at unclear risk of bias in 
at least three domains. In addition, we judged 20 of the 24 included studies as
having a high risk of bias in at least one domain.Two primary outcomes of
efficacy and acceptability showed a possible advantage of benzodiazepines over
placebo. The estimated risk ratio (RR) for a response to treatment was 1.65 (95% 
confidence interval (CI) 1.39 to 1.96) in favour of benzodiazepines, which
corresponds to an estimated number needed to treat for an additional beneficial
outcome (NNTB) of 4 (95% CI 3 to 7). The dropout rate was lower among
participants treated with benzodiazepines (RR 0.50, 95% CI 0.39 to 0.64); the
estimated NNTB was 6 (95% CI 5 to 9). We rated the quality of the evidence as low
for both primary outcomes. The possible advantage of benzodiazepine was also seen
for remission (RR 1.61, 95% CI 1.38 to 1.88) and the endpoint data for social
functioning (standardised mean difference (SMD) -0.53, 95% CI -0.65 to -0.42),
both with low-quality evidence. We assessed the evidence for the other secondary 
outcomes as of very low quality. With the exception of the analyses of the change
score data for depression (SMD -0.22, 95% CI -0.48 to 0.04) and social
functioning (SMD -0.32, 95% CI -0.88 to 0.24), all secondary outcome analyses
showed an effect in favour of benzodiazepines compared to placebo. However, the
number of dropouts due to adverse effects was higher with benzodiazepines than
with placebo (RR 1.58, 95% CI 1.16 to 2.15; low-quality evidence). Furthermore,
our analyses of adverse events showed that a higher proportion of participants
experienced at least one adverse effect when treated with benzodiazepines (RR
1.18, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.37; low-quality evidence).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Low-quality evidence shows a possible superiority of
benzodiazepine over placebo in the short-term treatment of panic disorders. The
validity of the included studies is questionable due to possible unmasking of
allocated treatments, high dropout rates, and probable publication bias.
Moreover, the included studies were only short-term studies and did not examine
the long-term efficacy nor the risks of dependency and withdrawal symptoms. Due
to these limitations, our results regarding the efficacy of benzodiazepines
versus placebo provide only limited guidance for clinical practice. Furthermore, 
the clinician's choice is not between benzodiazepines and placebo, but between
benzodiazepines and other agents, notably SSRIs, both in terms of efficacy and
adverse effects. The choice of treatment should therefore be guided by the
patient's preference and should balance benefits and harms from treatment in a
long-term perspective.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010677.pub2 
PMCID: PMC6438660 [Available on 2020-03-28]
PMID: 30921478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Cessation of Skin Picking Symptoms With Methylphenidate Treatment in a Child With
Comorbid Skin Picking and Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder.

Skin picking disorder includes behaviors such as picking, scratching, and
squeezing of the normal skin in an impulsive, repetitive manner despite the fact 
that no dermatological condition is detected. Skin picking disorder may also be
comorbid in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and
vice versa. There is a great deal of data regarding the efficacy and safety of
methylphenidate (MPH) treatment of ADHD. In this article, we report the cessation
of skin picking behaviors in a 10-year-old girl diagnosed as having skin picking 
disorder and ADHD after modified-release MPH treatment. To our knowledge, this is
the first case report that shows the cessation of skin picking behavior after MPH
treatment in a child with ADHD.

DOI: 10.1097/WNF.0000000000000338 
PMID: 30920403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Effectiveness of cognitive behavioural group therapy for social anxiety disorder:
long-term benefits and aftercare.

BACKGROUND: Empirical research demonstrates the short- to medium-term efficacy
and effectiveness of cognitive behavioural group therapy (CBGT) for social
anxiety disorder (SAD). Little is known about the durability of gains beyond 1
year following treatment in real-life clinical settings. Literature regarding the
impact of aftercare programs as an adjunct to CBGT treatment on SAD is scarce.
AIMS: To evaluate the long-term effectiveness of CBGT for SAD in a community
sample and to explore the relationship between long-term treatment outcomes and
aftercare support group attendance.
METHOD: A longitudinal cohort design evaluated changes in standardized
psychological measures assessing aspects of SAD, anxiety and depression.
Questionnaires were completed before the program (time 1, N = 457), after the
program (time 2, n = 369) and at an average of 4.6 years follow-up (time 3, n =
138).
RESULTS: Large treatment effect sizes at post-intervention were maintained at
long-term follow-up on measures of SAD, anxiety and depression. There was no
statistically significant relationship between frequency of attendance at an
aftercare support group and degree of improvement from post-treatment severity on
any measure.
CONCLUSIONS: CBGT is an effective intervention in the long-term in a routine
clinical setting and should be considered a viable treatment option for SAD.
Recommendations for future research, treatment implications and study limitations
are considered.

DOI: 10.1017/S1352465819000079 
PMID: 30919793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190.Healthcare utilization after stroke in Canada- a population based study.

BACKGROUND: More people are surviving stroke but are living with functional
limitations that pose increasing demands on their families and the healthcare
system. The aim of this study was to determine the extent to which stroke
survivors use healthcare services on a population level compared to people
without a stroke.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional population-based survey that collected
information related to health status, healthcare utilization and health
determinants using the 2014 Canadian Community Health Survey. Healthcare
utilization was assessed by a computer-assisted personal interview asking about
visits to healthcare professionals in the last 12 months. Negative binomial
regression was used to estimate the incidence rate ratios (IRR) and 95%
confidence intervals (CI) for the number of health professional visits between
stroke survivors and people without a stroke. The regression models were adjusted
for demographics, as well as for mobility, mood/anxiety disorder and
cardiometabolic comorbid conditions.
RESULTS: The study sample included 35,759 respondents (948 stroke, 34,811
non-stroke) and equate to 12,396,641 (286,783 stroke; 12,109,858 non-stroke) when
sampling weights were applied. Stroke survivors visited their family doctor the
most, and stroke was significantly associated with more visits to most healthcare
professionals [e.g., family doctor IRR 1.6 (CI 1.4-1.8); nurse IRR 3.0 (CI
1.8-4.8); physiotherapist IRR 1.8 (CI 1.1-1.9); psychologist IRR 4.0 (CI
1.1-5.7)] except the dental practitioner, which was less [IRR 0.7 (CI 0.6-0.9)]. 
Mood/anxiety condition, but not cardiometabolic comorbid condition increased the 
probability of visiting a family doctor or social worker/ counsellor among people
with stroke.
CONCLUSION: Stroke survivors visited healthcare professionals more often than
people without stroke, and were approximately twice as likely to visit with those
who manage problems that may arise after a stroke (e.g., family doctor, nurse,
psychologist, physiotherapist). The effects of a stroke include mobility
impairment and mood/ anxiety disorders. Therefore, adequate access to
stroke-related healthcare services should be provided for stroke survivors, as
this may improve functional outcome and reduce future healthcare costs.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-019-4020-6 
PMCID: PMC6438024
PMID: 30917828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191.Affective forecasting accuracy in obsessive compulsive disorder.

BACKGROUND: Research indicates that people suffering from obsessive compulsive
disorder (OCD) possess several cognitive biases, including a tendency to
over-estimate threat and avoid risk. Studies have suggested that people with OCD 
not only over-estimate the severity of negative events, but also under-estimate
their ability to cope with such occurrences. What is less clear is if they also
miscalculate the extent to which they will be emotionally impacted by a given
experience.
AIMS: The aim of the current study was twofold. First, we examined if people with
OCD are especially poor at predicting their emotional responses to future events 
(i.e. affective forecasting). Second, we analysed the relationship between
affective forecasting accuracy and risk assessment across a broad domain of
behaviours.
METHOD: Forty-one OCD, 42 non-anxious, and 40 socially anxious subjects completed
an affective forecasting task and a self-report measure of risk-taking.
RESULTS: Findings revealed that affective forecasting accuracy did not differ
among the groups. In addition, there was little evidence that affective
forecasting errors are related to how people assess risk in a variety of
situations.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study suggest that affective forecasting is
unlikely to contribute to the phenomenology of OCD or social anxiety disorder.
However, that people over-estimate the hedonic impact of negative events might
have interesting implications for the treatment of OCD and other disorders
treated with exposure therapy.

DOI: 10.1017/S1352465819000134 
PMID: 30914072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192.Does intolerance of uncertainty mediate improvement in anger during group CBT for
GAD? A preliminary investigation.

BACKGROUND: Individuals with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) have elevated
intolerance of uncertainty (IU) and anger, and IU mediates the relationship
between GAD symptoms and anger.
AIMS: The current pilot study examined whether group cognitive behavioural
therapy (CBT) improves anger in people with GAD, and the degree to which change
in IU mediates improved anger.
METHOD: Individuals diagnosed with GAD completed measures of worry, IU, and
facets of anger, before and at the end of group CBT for GAD.
RESULTS: Worry, IU, and internally felt and outwardly expressed anger, reduced
significantly over treatment, but anger control (inwardly and outwardly) did not.
CBT for GAD led to improvement in both internally felt and outwardly expressed
anger, even though anger is not directly targeted in this treatment. Improvement 
in IU significantly mediated improvement in internally felt and outwardly
expressed anger.
CONCLUSIONS: This preliminary study contributes to the literature on the
importance of IU in understanding worry and other symptoms such as elevated
anger, experienced by people with excessive worry.

DOI: 10.1017/S1352465819000249 
PMID: 30914070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193.Personality Trait Interactions in Risk for and Protection against Social Anxiety 
Symptoms.

Previous attempts to identify personality traits that enhance inclination to
social anxiety (SA) have been limited by a tendency to focus on selected traits
in isolation, rather than examining their interactions. Additional research is
needed to better understand whether and how these dimensions are linked to SA. In
a prospective study, it was examined how interactions between the Big Five
personality factors predict SA symptoms. A total of 135 individuals, aged
18-50 years, were recruited. Personality traits were measured at baseline, and SA
symptoms were assessed one month later. Results showed that low emotional
stability was an independent predictor of higher levels of SA. Additionally, two 
significant interactions emerged: the interactions between extraversion and
openness, and between openness and agreeableness predicted SA symptoms. At high
openness, higher extraversion was associated with significantly lower levels of
SA, suggesting that the interaction provides incrementally greater protection
against SA. Thus, extraverts are likely to be protected against social anxiety
symptoms, but more so the more open they are. Moreover, at high levels of
agreeableness, low openness has been shown to be uniquely predictive for higher
levels of SA symptoms, indicating that the combined effect of openness with
agreeableness may be more important to SA than either trait in isolation. These
findings highlight the importance of testing interaction effects of personality
traits on psychopathology.

DOI: 10.1080/00223980.2019.1581723 
PMID: 30912711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194.Evaluation of the psychological burden during the early disease trajectory in
patients with intracranial tumors by the ultra-brief Patient Health Questionnaire
for Depression and Anxiety (PHQ-4).

PURPOSE: Depressive symptoms of patients with intracranial tumors need to be
assessed adequately. The Patient Health Questionnaire for Depression and Anxiety 
(PHQ-4) is an ultra-short screening tool consisting of four items, a cutoff of
six indicates depressive symptoms. The aim was to assess patients' psychological 
burden by the PHQ-4 compared with the results of well-established screening
instruments.
METHODS: Patients were screened three times after primary diagnosis
postoperatively (t1), after 3 (t2) and 6 (t3) months using the PHQ-4, the
Hornheide Screening Instrument (HSI), the NCCN Distress Thermometer (DT), and the
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Core
Questionnaire with its brain module (EORTC QLQ-C30 + BN20). Demographic,
tumor-related data, and Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) were analyzed. A cutoff
value for PHQ-4 indicating a need for support or increased distress was
determined by applying receiver operating characteristic (ROC).
RESULTS: The proportion of patients reaching a total score ≥ 6 was n = 32 out of 
139 (23%) at t1; at t2, n = 12 out of 117 (10%) scored ≥ 6. At t3, n = 8 out of
96 (8%) scored ≥ 6. At t1, PHQ-4 scores did not differ significantly between
gender, age groups, and tumor laterality. A cutoff value of 2.5 was identified to
moderately discriminate between patients in or not in distress (sensitivity
76.8%) and between patients wishing further, specific support or not (sensitivity
82.5%).
CONCLUSION: The PHQ4 can be applied in this patient cohort to detect those with
relevant psychological comorbidities. The cutoff value should be re-evaluated in 
a larger cohort as we observed that a cutoff of 6, as recommended previously, may
be too high in order to detect affected patients adequately.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-019-04718-z 
PMID: 30904948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Trichotillomania: a psychopathological perspective and the psychiatric
comorbidity of hair pulling.

Trichotillomania, or hair-pulling disorder, is classified as an
obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorder and is seen predominantly in females. This
is a non-systematic review article focusing on the psychopathological features of
hair pulling. It is speculated that hair pulling may function to provide
short-term relief from stress and other unwanted emotional states, thus serving
as a method of emotion regulation. The prevalence of trichotillomania ranges from
1 to 3%. The most targeted site is the scalp, and other common areas include
pubic hair and facial regions such as the eyebrows, eyelashes, and beard.
Individuals suffering from this disorder tend to avoid social environments due to
embarrassment regarding their appearance and fears of being judged by peers.
Trichotillomania is associated with significant functional impairment and
increased risks of comorbid psychiatric disorders such as other body-focused
repetitive behaviors, depression, anxiety, and addictive disorders. This article 
reviews the epidemiology, clinical features, diagnostic criteria, and
psychopathology of trichotillomania with an emphasis on psychopathology and
psychiatric comorbidity.


PMID: 30901067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196.Bridging eating disorder symptoms and trait anxiety in patients with eating
disorders: A network approach.

OBJECTIVE: Anxiety is thought to influence the development and maintenance of
eating disorders (EDs). However, little is known about how, specifically, anxiety
influences ED symptoms and vice versa. Network analysis identifies how symptoms
within and across disorders are interconnected. In a network, central nodes
(i.e., symptoms) have the strongest relations to other nodes and are thought to
maintain psychopathology. Bridge nodes are symptoms in one diagnostic cluster
that are strongly connected to symptoms in another diagnostic cluster and are
thought to explain comorbidity. We identified central and bridge nodes in a
network of ED symptoms and trait anxiety features.
METHOD: We estimated a regularized partial correlation network in patients with
mixed EDs (N = 296). ED symptoms were assessed with the Eating Disorder
Examination-Questionnaire. Trait anxiety was assessed with the Trait subscale of 
the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory. Items to include in the network were selected 
with a statistical algorithm to ensure that all nodes represented unique
constructs. Central and bridge nodes were identified with empirical calculations.
RESULTS: Central ED nodes were dietary restraint, as well as overvaluation of and
dissatisfaction with shape and weight. The central trait anxiety node was low
feelings of satisfaction. The strongest ED bridge node was avoidance of social
eating. The strongest trait anxiety bridge node was low self-confidence.
DISCUSSION: Avoidance of social eating and low self-esteem may be routes through 
which EDs and trait anxiety are linked.



DOI: 10.1002/eat.23070 
PMID: 30900758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197.Clinical risk factors among youth at high risk for suicide in South Africa and
Guyana.

INTRODUCTION: Suicide is the second leading cause of death among youth worldwide,
but low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) account for 78% of all suicides. The
LMICs South Africa and Guyana rank high in the global suicide rates. To better
understand and prevent suicide among the youth, the present study targets youths 
at high risk for suicide, in an LMIC, to contextually and representatively
identify clinical risk factors for suicide.
METHODS: One hundred-ninety youths, aged 11-21, separated from biological parents
at the time of assessment, in South Africa and Guyana, were administered the
Child Behavior Checklist and Behavior Assessment System for Children to assess
clinical symptoms. The youths were asked about current suicide ideation and
previous attempt(s). Self-report responses to clinical items yielded scale scores
for depression, social stress, atypicality, somatization, anxiety, and ADHD.
Using an integrative data analytic technique, clinical scale scores were
standardized and used to predict suicidal behaviors in a binary logistic
regression analysis.
RESULTS: Approximately 22% of Black South African youths and 60% of Guyanese
youths endorsed suicide ideation and attempt or suicide attempt only. In fully
adjusted analyses, the odds of atypicality and somatization were 1.96 and 1.67
times greater among the youths who endorsed suicidal ideation when compared with 
those who did not (p < .04). Youth social stress was significantly associated
with the suicide attempt, controlling for model covariates (odds ratio [OR],
1.88, p = .05). Gender moderated the effect of somatization on youth suicide.
CONCLUSION: Our results contextualize how social stress, atypicality, and
somatization relate to LMIC youth suicide. Further study on high-risk samples
will contribute to generalizable suicide-prevention models.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22889 
PMID: 30900366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Pathologic Use of Video Games and Motivation: Can the Gaming Motivation Scale
(GAMS) Predict Depression and Trait Anxiety?

Videogaming is an increasingly prevalent activity among adolescents worldwide.
The present study aimed at adapting the Gaming Motivation Scale (GAMS) to the
Italian context, assessing its psychometric properties and verifying its
sensitivity to predict depression and anxiety levels. From a sample of 1899
participants, a group of 388 adolescents who participated in the survey was
divided into two subgroups of Heavy (HG, N = 188) and Light Gamers (LG, N = 200).
A sub-sample of N = 172 adolescents also filled-in CESD and STAI to assess,
respectively, depression and trait anxiety. Internal consistency and factorial
structure of the Italian version of GAMS (GAMS-it) have been evaluated. Moreover,
a latent regression structural equation model by predicting the CES-D and STAI
scores with the GAMS-it factors has been carried out. GAMS-it has adequate
validity and reliability levels, showing a very similar factorial structure to
the original version. Therefore, this scale can be used to evaluate gaming
motivation, which is useful for gaming motivation screening. Finally, it has been
found that lower gaming motivation can be related to high level of depression and
anxiety. The present findings provide a coherent picture, supporting the
reliability and validity of the GAMS-it, that appears potentially useful in
predicting anxiety and depression levels in a population of adolescents.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph16061008 
PMCID: PMC6466420
PMID: 30897719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199.Assessing anxiety and its correlates in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: The
state-trait anxiety inventory.

INTRODUCTION: We evaluated: (1) psychometric properties of State-Trait Anxiety
Inventory Form Y (STAI Form Y); (2) clinical correlates of state and trait
anxiety; (3) associations of anxiety with quality of life (QoL) dimensions.
METHODS: We assessed 159 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) on
STAI Form Y and on tests and questionnaires for depression, apathy, QoL, and
cognitive abilities.
RESULTS: Clinically diagnosed anxiety (by Mini International Neuropsychiatric
Inventory) occurred in 30 (19%) patients. STAI Form Y fitted a 2-factor structure
and showed good psychometric properties. State and trait anxiety were weakly
associated with female sex, bulbar functional decay, and cognitive decline in
language and memory; trait anxiety was associated with lower educational
attainment and poorer scores on visuospatial tasks. State and trait anxiety were 
associated with poorer physical and psychosocial QoL dimensions.
CONCLUSIONS: Anxiety is tightly associated with QoL in ALS, and can be reliably
assessed by STAI Form Y. Muscle Nerve, 2019.



DOI: 10.1002/mus.26475 
PMID: 30897219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200.Unfolding the Complex Dynamic Interplay Between Attentional Processes and
Anxiety: A Commentary on Ghassemzadeh, Rothbart, and Posner.

Theories about the involvement of attention in feelings of fear and anxiety have 
been debated in philosophical circles since long before the foundation of
experimental psychology and cognitive neuroscience. In this issue, Ghassemzadeh, 
Rothbart, and Posner (2019) provide a much-needed historical and conceptual
review of the relations between attention and anxiety disorders. Throughout their
paper, they argue that insights from the study of brain networks of attention
offer a particularly viable prospect for best clarifying the complex relations
between attentional processes and anxiety. We fully share this view. Moreover, we
believe that the computational and conceptual tools of network analysis (also
known as graph theory) can enable researchers to move even closer to elucidating 
the complex dynamic interplay between those phenomena. In this commentary, we
explain why and how to use network analysis for this purpose.

DOI: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000187 
PMID: 30896579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Anxiety and Brain Networks of Attentional Control.

Advances in the study of brain networks can be applied to our understanding of
anxiety disorders (eg, generalized anxiety, obsessive-compulsive, and
posttraumatic stress disorders) to enable us to create targeted treatments. These
disorders have in common an inability to control thoughts, emotions, and
behaviors related to a perceived threat. Here we review animal and human imaging 
studies that have revealed separate brain networks related to various negative
emotions. Research has supported the idea that brain networks of attention serve 
to control emotion networks as well as the thoughts and behaviors related to
them. We discuss how attention networks can modulate both positive and negative
affect. Disorders arise from both abnormal activation of negative affect and a
lack of attentional control. Training attention has been one way to foster
improved attentional control. We review attention training studies as well as
efforts to generally improve attention networks through stimulation in
self-regulation.

DOI: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000181 
PMID: 30896578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202.Intrusive social images in individuals with high and low social anxiety: a
multi-method analysis.

BACKGROUND: Models of social anxiety suggest that intrusive images/memories are
common in social anxiety and contribute to the maintenance of social anxiety.
AIMS: We examined the context and phenomenological features of intrusive social
images using quantitative and qualitative measures across various levels of
social anxiety.
METHOD: Undergraduate students (n = 191) completed measures of social anxiety
(i.e. Social Interaction Anxiety Scale and Social Phobia Scale) and wrote a
description of an intrusive social image. Individuals who reported an intrusive
social image (n = 77) rated the frequency, interference and phenomenological
(e.g. vividness, emotional intensity) characteristics of the image. A content
analysis of the intrusive image narratives was completed by independent raters.
RESULTS: High social anxiety (HSA) increased the likelihood and frequency of
experiencing intrusive images, and to some extent the interference caused by
these images. However, the characteristics of these images with regard to their
content and quality were similar across levels of social anxiety. Among
participants who provided narratives, HSA individuals (n = 34) did not differ
from low socially anxious (LSA) individuals (n = 28) in themes that reflect
concerns about their own thoughts, actions and behaviours. However, HSA
individuals reported greater concerns about how other individuals would react,
and their intrusive images were often from an observer perspective when compared 
with LSA individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: These results are interpreted in relation to cognitive models of
emotion, memory and cognitive behavioural models of social anxiety.

DOI: 10.1017/S1352465819000043 
PMID: 30894245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203.Associations between Home Foreclosure and Health Outcomes in a Spanish City.

The financial crisis has caused an exponential increase of home foreclosures in
Spain. Recent studies have shown the effects that foreclosures have on mental and
physical health. This study explores these effects on a sample of adults in the
city of Granada (Spain), in terms of socio-demographic, socio-economic and
process characteristics. A cross-sectional survey was administered to obtain
information on self-perceived changes in several indicators of physical and
mental health, consumption of medications, health-related behaviors and use of
health services. A total of 205 persons, going through a foreclosure process,
participated in the study. 85.7% of the sample reported an increase of episodes
of anxiety, depression, and stress; 82.6% sleep disturbances; 42.8% worsening of 
previous chronic conditions, and 40.8% an increase in consumption of medication. 
Women, married persons and persons already in the legal stage of the foreclosure 
process reported higher probability of worsening health according to several
indicators, in comparison with men, not married, and individuals in the initial
stages of the foreclosure process. The results of this study reveal a general
deterioration of health associated with the foreclosure process. These results
may help to identify factors to prevent poor health among populations going
through a foreclosure process.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph16060981 
PMCID: PMC6466329
PMID: 30893804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204.A randomized waitlist-controlled trial comparing detached mindfulness and
cognitive restructuring in obsessive-compulsive disorder.

OBJECTIVE: Whereas research has demonstrated the efficacy of cognitive
restructuring (CR) for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), little is known about
the efficacy of specific metacognitive interventions such as detached mindfulness
(DM). Therefore, this study compared the efficacy of CR and DM as stand-alone
interventions.
DESIGN: We conducted a randomized waitlist-controlled trial. n = 43 participants 
were randomly assigned to either DM or CR. Out of those participants, n = 21
participants had been previously assigned to a two-week waitlist condition.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In both conditions, treatment comprised four double
sessions within two weeks. Assessment took place at baseline (Pre1), after
treatment (Post) and four weeks after the end of treatment (FU). There was a
second baseline assessment (Pre2) in the waitlist group. Independent evaluators
were blinded concerning the active condition. Adherence and competence ratings
for the two therapists were obtained from an independent rater.
RESULTS: 40 patients completed the treatment. Two patients dropped out because of
exacerbated depression. There were no further adverse events. Both CR and DM were
shown to be superior to waitlist and equally effective at reducing OCD symptoms
from pre to post assessment as measured with the Y-BOCS (CR: d = 1.67, DM: d =
1.55). In each of the two treatment conditions, eight patients (40%) exhibited a 
clinical significant change at post assessment.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this clinical trial suggest the potential efficacy of
DM as a stand-alone intervention for OCD, however, our findings need to be
interpreted with caution. Results indicate that both CR and DM should be
considered as possible alternative treatments for OCD, whereas the working
mechanisms of DM have yet to be elucidated.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213895 
PMCID: PMC6426247
PMID: 30893353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]



205.Illness perceptions in people with obsessive-compulsive disorder; A qualitative
study.

BACKGROUND: Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a serious mental health
problem that causes significant impairment and reduced quality of life. Though
some substantially benefit from psychological therapies, a substantial proportion
of people with OCD disengage from treatment or fail to benefit. Theoretical
models such as the Common-Sense Model posit that our management of physical
illness depends on our perceptions about the condition. Identifying how people
with OCD perceive their condition could lead to important insight that would
improve treatment of OCD.
OBJECTIVES: To identify and characterise the illness perceptions of people with
OCD.
METHOD: Transcribed semi-structured interviews exploring the illness perceptions 
of 16 people with OCD were analysed using thematic analysis.
RESULTS: In some cases, identification of symptoms was hindered by a failure to
interpret experiences as 'symptoms'. Instead, these individuals interpreted
symptoms as a personality quirk, or as evidence that they had become deviant.
Perceptions of the condition as 'part' of the self contributed to views of OCD as
permanent. Individuals were concerned about the impact of OCD on friends and
family and attempted to minimise its consequences, for example by concealing
symptoms from their children, who they feared could acquire OCD.
CONCLUSION: Applying a theoretical model of physical health understanding to OCD 
yielded novel insights, with important implications for support and treatment. To
enable early help-seeking and rapid diagnosis, public and professional knowledge 
about OCD should be extended beyond 'washing and checking' to the less widely
known OCD-subtypes, such as fear of causing harm. It may be important to identify
and challenge views of OCD as permanent early in the course of treatment to
maximise engagement. Management of OCD should also address the burden of living
with OCD in a family context. Further research to test whether these perceptions 
lead to coping responses and outcomes in OCD is now needed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213495 
PMCID: PMC6426201
PMID: 30893331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Deep brain stimulation for obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Neurosurgical interventions have been used for decades to treat severe,
refractory obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a
neurosurgical procedure that is used routinely to treat movement disorders such
as Parkinson's disease and essential tremor. Over the past two decades, DBS has
been applied to OCD, building on earlier experience with lesional procedures.
Promising results led to Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) approval of the
therapy from the United States Food and Drug Administration in 2009. In this
review, the authors describe the development of DBS for OCD, the most recent
outcome data, and areas for future research.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.2019.83.1.84 
PMID: 30888854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Physical exercise augmented cognitive behaviour therapy for older adults with
generalised anxiety disorder (PEXACOG): study protocol for a randomized
controlled trial.

BACKGROUND: Generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) is a frequent and severe anxiety
disorder among older adults. GAD increases the risk of developing other disorders
such as depression and coronary heart disease. Older adults with GAD exhibit a
poorer response to cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) compared to younger patients
with GAD. The normal age-related cognitive decline can be a contributor to
reduced treatment efficacy. One strategy for improving treatment efficacy is to
combine CBT with adjunctive interventions targeted at improving cognitive
functions. Physical exercise is a viable intervention in this regard. Increased
levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor may mediate improvement in cognitive 
function. The present study aims to investigate the proposed effects and
mechanisms related to concomitant physical exercise.
METHODS: The sample comprises 70 participants aged 60-75 years, who have GAD.
Exclusion criteria comprise substance abuse and unstable medication; inability to
participate in physical exercise; and conditions which precludes GAD as primary
diagnosis. The interventions are individual treatment in the outpatient clinic at
the local psychiatric hospital, with two experimental arms: (1) CBT + physical
exercise and (2) CBT + telephone calls. The primary outcome measure is symptom
reduction on the Penn State Worry Questionnaire. Other measures include
questionnaires, clinical interviews, physiological, biological and
neuropsychological tests. A subset of 40 participants will undergo magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI). After inclusion, participants undergo baseline testing, 
and are subsequently randomized to a treatment condition. Participants attend
five sessions of the add-on treatment in the pre-treatment phase, and move on to 
interim testing. After interim testing, participants attend 10 sessions of CBT in
parallel with continued add-on treatment. Participants are tested
post-intervention within 2 weeks of completing treatment, with follow-up testing 
6 and 12 months later.
DISCUSSION: This study aims to develop better treatment for GAD in older adults. 
Enhancing treatment response will be valuable from both individual and societal
perspectives, especially taking the aging of the general population into account.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02690441 . Registered on 24 February
2016.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-019-3268-9 
PMCID: PMC6423789
PMID: 30885256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Anticipation of difficult tasks: neural correlates of negative emotions and
emotion regulation.

BACKGROUND: Difficult cognitive tasks are often associated with negative
feelings. This can be already the case for the mere anticipation of having to do 
a difficult task. For the case of difficult math tasks, it was recently suggested
that such a negative emotional response may be exclusive to highly math-anxious
individuals. However, it is also conceivable that negative emotional responses
simply reflect that math is perceived as difficult. Here we investigated whether 
non-math-anxious individuals also experience negative emotional responses when
anticipating to do difficult math tasks.
METHODS: We compared brain activation following the presentation of a numerical
cue indicating either difficult or easy upcoming proportion magnitude comparison 
tasks.
RESULTS: Comparable to previous results for highly math-anxious individuals we
observed a network associated with negative emotions to be activated in
non-math-anxious individuals when facing cues indicating a difficult upcoming
task. Importantly, however, math anxiety scores did not predict the neural
response. Furthermore, we observed activation in areas associated with processes 
of cognitive control areas such as anterior cingulate cortex, which were
suggested to play a key role in emotion regulation.
CONCLUSION: Activation in the emotion processing network was observed when
anticipating an upcoming difficult (math) task. However, this activation was not 
predicted by individual' degree of math anxiety. Therefore, we suggest that
negative emotional responses to difficult math tasks might be a rather common
reaction not specific to math-anxious individuals. Whether or not this initial
negative response impairs math performance, however, might depend on the ability 
to regulate those emotions effectively.

DOI: 10.1186/s12993-019-0155-1 
PMCID: PMC6421679
PMID: 30885230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209.Psychological Disorder Identifying Method Based on Emotion Perception over Social
Networks.

The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) has stated that over 1.1
billion people suffered from mental disorders globally in 2016, and the burden of
mental disorders has continued to grow with impacts on social development.
Despite the implementation of strategies for promotion and prevention in mental
health WHO's Comprehensive Mental Health Action Plan 2013⁻2020, the difficulty of
diagnosis of mental disorders makes the objective "To provide comprehensive,
integrated, and responsive mental health and social care services in
community-based settings" hard to carry out. This paper presents a
mental-disorder-aided diagnosis model (MDAD) to quantify the multipolarity
sentiment affect intensity of users' short texts in social networks in order to
analyze the 11-dimensional sentiment distribution. We searched the five mental
disorder topics and collected data based on Twitter hashtag. Through sentiment
distribution similarity calculations and Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD),
people with a high probability of suffering from mental disorder can be detected 
in real time. In particular, mental health warnings can be made in time for users
with an obvious emotional tendency in their tweets. In the experiments, we make a
comprehensive evaluation of MDAD by five common adult mental disorders:
depressive disorder, anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD),
bipolar disorder, and panic disorder. Our proposed model can effectively diagnose
common mental disorders by sentiment multipolarity analysis, providing strong
support for the prevention and diagnosis of mental disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph16060953 
PMCID: PMC6466382
PMID: 30884824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210.Topical corticosteroid phobia among caretakers of children with atopic
dermatitis: A cross-sectional study using TOPICOP in Japan.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: The TOPICOP scale is an easy-to-use scale for assessing
topical corticosteroid (TCS) phobia in atopic dermatitis (AD) patients and their 
caretakers. TCS phobia is a common problem among AD patients and their
caretakers. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between TCS
phobia in caretakers of children with AD and the characteristics of patients
using the TOPICOP scale.
METHODS: Caretakers of AD patients who visited the allergy clinic at the National
Center for Child Health and Development in Tokyo between February 2014 and May
2014 were recruited. Caretakers of patients in follow-up had already attended an 
education session on treatment at the institution. All participants completed an 
anonymous questionnaire on the characteristics of the respondents and patients
using the Patient-Oriented Eczema Measure (POEM) and the Japanese version of
TOPICOP.
RESULTS: In total, 243 participants (88.9% female) completed the survey. The
average TOPICOP score was 40.3 and the median POEM score was 4. The TOPICOP score
was significantly higher for patients younger than 12 months old with moderate to
very severe AD (POEM ≥ 8) whose caretaker had not attended an educational session
(P < 0.01, respectively). There was no significant difference in the family
history of AD, age, or gender of the respondents. In multivariable analysis,
preattendance at an education session was the only significant factor accounting 
for a higher TOPICOP score (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Regardless of their background, caretakers of AD patients can be
affected from TCS phobia. Attending an educational session might ease their
anxiety.



DOI: 10.1111/pde.13784 
PMID: 30882946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211.Association between BDNF Val66Met polymorphism and generalized anxiety disorder
and clinical characteristics in a Mexican population: A case-control study.

The aim of the present case-control study was to explore the association between 
BDNF Val66Met (rs6265) polymorphism and generalized anxiety disorder in Mexican
individuals, and whether this polymorphism plays a role in the symptomatology of 
anxiety.A total of 212 subjects were included in the study. Around 75 patients
with generalized anxiety disorder were diagnosed by psychiatrists based on the
DSM-IV instrument and 137 unrelated subjects psychiatrically healthy were used as
comparison group. The subclinical symptomatology in patients was assessed with
the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory. BDNF rs6265 genotypes were analyzed using the 
polymerase chain reaction end-point method.The association between BDNF Val66Met 
with the risk for generalized anxiety disorder was evaluated using 4 inheritance 
models. The present study showed that carrying the Met allele confers increased
risk for the presence of generalized anxiety disorder (χ = 4.7, P = .03; OR (95%)
1.96 (1.05-3.56)) when patients with generalized anxiety disorder were compared
with the comparison group.Our results provide evidence of an association between 
the Val66Met polymorphism of the BDNF gene and generalized anxiety disorder in a 
Mexican population. However, no association was observed between this
polymorphism and the symptomatology of anxiety.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000014838 
PMCID: PMC6426483
PMID: 30882674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212.Assessment of Physician Well-being, Part One: Burnout and Other Negative States.

Physician well-being is a complex and multifactorial issue. A large number of
tools have been developed in an attempt to measure the nature, severity, and
impact of both burnout and well-being in a range of clinical populations. This
two-article series provides a review of relevant tools and offers guidance to
clinical mentors and researchers in choosing the appropriate instrument to suit
their needs, whether assessing mentees or testing interventions in the research
setting. Part One begins with a discussion of burnout and focuses on assessment
tools to measure burnout and other negative states. Part Two of the series
examines the assessment of well-being, coping skills, and other positive states.

DOI: 10.5811/westjem.2019.1.39665 
PMCID: PMC6404708
PMID: 30881548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213.Comparison of Cortisol Stress Response in Patients with Panic Disorder,
Cannabis-Induced Panic Disorder, and Healthy Controls.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Little research effort has so far been dedicated to the analysis
of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis of aetiologically differing subgroups 
of patients with panic disorder (PD). The current study aimed at a deeper
understanding of the cortisol stress response in cannabis-induced PD (CIPD)
patients.
METHODS: Matched groups of 7 PD patients (mean age ± SD: 32.95 ± 9.04 years), 7
CIPD patients (31.94 ± 8.40 years), and 7 healthy controls (HC) (31.13 ± 8.57
years) were included in the study. The Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) was used
for stress induction. Salivary cortisol samples were collected and panic- and
depression-related questionnaires were applied.
RESULTS: A stress response to the TSST was found in 28.6% of PD patients, in
51.1% of CIPD patients, and in 100% of HC subjects. Statistical analyses revealed
a cortisol hyporesponsiveness in PD and CIPD patients. While cortisol values of
PD patients and HC participants differed significantly, CIPD patients' cortisol
courses balanced between those of PD patients and HC subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: Current findings show a distinctive pattern of the stress-induced
cortisol reaction in CIPD patients, which is markedly different from the hormonal
response in PD patients as well as HC subjects. Previous findings of cortisol
hyporesponsiveness in PD patients compared to HC subjects were confirmed.



DOI: 10.1159/000496559 
PMID: 30879013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214.Phasic amygdala and BNST activation during the anticipation of temporally
unpredictable social observation in social anxiety disorder patients.

Anticipation of potentially threatening social situations is a key process in
social anxiety disorder (SAD). In other anxiety disorders, recent research of
neural correlates of anticipation of temporally unpredictable threat suggests a
temporally dissociable involvement of amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria
terminalis (BNST) with phasic amygdala responses and sustained BNST activation.
However, the temporal profile of amygdala and BNST responses during temporal
unpredictability of threat has not been investigated in patients suffering from
SAD. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate neural
activation in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and the BNST during
anticipation of temporally unpredictable aversive (video camera observation)
relative to neutral (no camera observation) events in SAD patients compared to
healthy controls (HC). For the analysis of fMRI data, we applied two regressors
(phasic/sustained) within the same model to detect temporally dissociable brain
responses. The aversive condition induced increased anxiety in patients compared 
to HC. SAD patients compared to HC showed increased phasic activation in the CeA 
and the BNST for anticipation of aversive relative to neutral events. SAD
patients as well as HC showed sustained activity alterations in the BNST for
aversive relative to neutral anticipation. No differential activity during
sustained threat anticipation in SAD patients compared to HC was found. Taken
together, our study reveals both CeA and BNST involvement during threat
anticipation in SAD patients. The present results point towards potentially
SAD-specific threat processing marked by elevated phasic but not sustained CeA
and BNST responses when compared to HC.



DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2019.101735 
PMCID: PMC6423472
PMID: 30878610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215.Polydrug use disorders in individuals with opioid use disorder.

BACKGROUND: Understanding the association of polydrug use disorders (PUD) with
psychosocial and clinical factors is essential for the treatment of individuals
with opioid use disorder (OUD). The aim of this study is to examine whether there
is an association between childhood maltreatment, mood disorders, anxiety
disorders, personality disorders, or posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and PUD
in individuals with OUD.
METHODS: We used data from 356 individuals with OUD in the past 12 months from a 
nationally representative database in the United States. PUD patients were
classified into two groups: a group with additional one substance disorder
(OUD + 1) and that with two or more additional substance disorders (OUD + 2). We 
conducted multivariate logistic regression to predict the PUD status, after
adjustment for confounders including childhood maltreatment.
RESULTS: Among all individuals, 57.3% were polydrug users (n = 204) and 42.7%
were not (n = 152). There was a high prevalence of childhood maltreatment in both
groups, ranging from 16.1% to 59.5%, but the difference was not statistically
significant. After adjustment for confounders, we found an association between
past-year PTSD and OUD + 2 (odds ratio: 3.98; 95% confidence interval:
1.15-13.72; p = 0.03) but not with OUD + 1.
CONCLUSION: PTSD is highly prevalent in individuals with OUD using multiple
substances and could influence PUD. We recommend screening for PTSD in cases of
PUD. Future studies should evaluate the effect of PTSD treatment on PUD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2019.01.031 
PMID: 30877954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216.Screening for perinatal anxiety disorders: Room to grow.

BACKGROUND: The anxiety and their related disorders (AD) are the most prevalent
of all mental health conditions, disproportionately affecting women. The value of
perinatal AD screening is well established but there is very limited evidence to 
support the applicability of existing anxiety screening instruments. To our
knowledge, no previous studies have evaluated an AD screening instrument in a
perinatal population using full gold standard methodology.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the accuracy of the most commonly used and/or recommended
screening tools for perinatal AD (i.e., the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale 
(EPDS) and its anxiety subscale (EPDS-3A), and the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7
and 2-item Scales (GAD-7 and GAD-2) alongside a clinically derived alternative;
the Anxiety Disorder - 13 (AD-13).
METHODS: 310 Canadian women completed mood and anxiety questionnaires at
approximately 3-months postpartum. Those scoring at/above cut-off on one or more 
questionnaire completed a diagnostic interview for depression and all AD
(n = 115). The accuracy of each scale was assessed via ROC analyses.
RESULTS: Only the AD-13 met the standard of a clinically useful screening
measure, with an area under the curve (AUC) above 0.8. This was achieved with and
without the inclusion of the related disorders. No other measure demonstrated an 
AUC above 0.8, either including or excluding the related disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: Neither the EPDS/EPDS 3-A, nor the GAD-7/GAD-2 can be recommended
for widespread use as a perinatal AD screening tool. The high performance of the 
AD-13 is a good indication that an effective alternative is well within reach.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.052 
PMID: 30877859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217.Differentiating acute suicidal affective disturbance (ASAD) from anxiety and
depression Symptoms: A network analysis.

BACKGROUND: A growing body of literature supports the potential existence of a
new clinical entity, Acute suicidal affective disturbance (ASAD), which is
characterized by rapid-onset, acute suicidality. This study aimed to evaluate
whether current ASAD symptoms (i.e., suicidal intent, thwarted belongingness,
perceived burdensomeness, disgust with others and oneself, agitation,
irritability, insomnia, and nightmares) comprise a psychopathological network
distinct from anxiety and depression symptoms.
METHODS: A sample of 167 psychiatric inpatients completed self-report measures of
current ASAD, anxiety, and depression symptoms.
RESULTS: Network analyses revealed three distinct clusters of symptoms
corresponding to ASAD, anxiety, and depression symptom self-report measure items.
Namely, ASAD symptoms not only demonstrated strong associations with each other, 
but they also exhibited weak associations with symptoms of anxiety and
depression.
LIMITATIONS: This study utilized a cross-sectional design and distinct
self-report measures to assess all constructs, which may have led to
methodological confounds that influenced the observed network structure.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our findings provide further evidence for ASAD as a
syndrome with strongly interrelated symptoms. Furthermore, results indicate that 
ASAD may represent a construct distinct from anxiety and depression, underscoring
its potential diagnostic value. Additional research is needed to replicate these 
findings across other high-risk populations, as well as to examine how ASAD
symptoms may relate to other psychiatric symptoms.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.005 
PMID: 30875677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Internet-Delivered Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Major Depression and Anxiety
Disorders: A Health Technology Assessment.

Background: Major depression is defined as a period of depression lasting at
least 2 weeks characterized by depressed mood, most of the day, nearly every day,
and/or markedly diminished interest or pleasure in all, or almost all,
activities. Anxiety disorders encompass a broad range of disorders in which
people experience feelings of fear and excessive worry that interfere with normal
day-to-day functioning.Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is a form of
evidence-based psychotherapy used to treat major depression and anxiety
disorders. Internet-delivered CBT (iCBT) is structured, goal-oriented CBT
delivered via the internet. It may be guided, in which the patient communicates
with a regulated health care professional, or unguided, in which the patient is
not supported by a regulated health care professional.
Methods: We conducted a health technology assessment, which included an
evaluation of clinical benefit, value for money, and patient preferences and
values related to the use of iCBT for the treatment of mild to moderate major
depression or anxiety disorders. We performed a systematic review of the clinical
and economic literature and conducted a grey literature search. We reported
Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE)
ratings if sufficient information was provided. When other quality assessment
tools were used by the systematic review authors in the included studies, these
were reported. We assessed the risk of bias within the included reviews. We also 
developed decision-analytic models to compare the costs and benefits of unguided 
iCBT, guided iCBT, face-to-face CBT, and usual care over 1 year using a
sequential approach. We further explored the lifetime and short-term
cost-effectiveness of stepped-care models, including iCBT, compared with usual
care. We calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) from the
perspective of the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care and estimated
the 5-year budget impact of publicly funding iCBT for mild to moderate major
depression or anxiety disorders in Ontario. To contextualize the potential value 
of iCBT as a treatment option for major depression or anxiety disorders, we spoke
with people with these conditions.
Results: People who had undergone guided iCBT for mild to moderate major
depression (standardized mean difference [SMD] = 0.83, 95% CI 0.59-1.07, GRADE
moderate), generalized anxiety disorder (SMD = 0.84, 95% CI 0.45-1.23, GRADE
low), panic disorder (small to very large effects, GRADE low), and social phobia 
(SMD = 0.85, 95% CI 0.66-1.05, GRADE moderate) showed a statistically significant
improvement in symptoms compared with people on a waiting list. People who had
undergone iCBT for panic disorder (SMD= 1.15, 95% CI: 0.94 to 1.37) and iCBT for 
social anxiety disorder (SMD=0.91, 95% CI: 0.74-1.07) showed a statistically
significant improvement in symptoms compared with people on a waiting list. There
was a statistically significant improvement in quality of life for people with
generalized anxiety disorder who had undergone iCBT (SMD = 0.38, 95% CI
0.08-0.67) compared with people on a waiting list. The mean differences between
people who had undergone iCBT compared with usual care at 3, 5, and 8 months were
-4.3, -3.9, and -5.9, respectively. The negative mean difference at each
follow-up showed an improvement in symptoms of depression for participants
randomized to the iCBT group compared with usual care. People who had undergone
guided iCBT showed no statistically significant improvement in symptoms of panic 
disorder compared with individual or group face-to-face CBT (d = 0.00, 95% CI
-0.41 to 0.41, GRADE very low). Similarly, there was no statistically significant
difference in symptoms of specific phobia in people who had undergone guided iCBT
compared with brief therapist-led exposure (GRADE very low). There was a small
statistically significant improvement in symptoms in favour of guided iCBT
compared with group face-to-face CBT (d= 0.41, 95% CI 0.03-0.78, GRADE low) for
social phobia. There was no statistically significant improvement in quality of
life reported for people with panic disorder who had undergone iCBT compared with
face-to-face CBT (SMD = -0.07, 95% CI -0.34 to 0.21).Guided iCBT was the optimal 
strategy in the reference case cost-utility analyses. For adults with mild to
moderate major depression, guided iCBT was associated with increases in both
quality-adjusted survival (0.04 quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) and cost
($1,257), yielding an ICER of $31,575 per QALY gained when compared with usual
care. In adults with anxiety disorders, guided iCBT was also associated with
increases in both quality-adjusted survival (0.03 QALYs) and cost ($1,395),
yielding an ICER of $43,214 per QALY gained when compared with unguided iCBT. In 
this population, guided iCBT was associated with an ICER of $26,719 per QALY
gained when compared with usual care. The probability of cost-effectiveness of
guided iCBT for major depression and anxiety disorders, respectively, was 67% and
70% at willingness-to-pay of $100,000 per QALY gained. Guided iCBT delivered
within stepped-care models appears to represent good value for money for the
treatment of mild to moderate major depression and anxiety disorders.Assuming a
3% increase in access per year (from about 8,000 people in year 1 to about 32,000
people in year 5), the net budget impact of publicly funding guided iCBT for the 
treatment of mild to moderate major depression would range from about $10 million
in year 1 to about $40 million in year 5. The corresponding net budget impact for
the treatment of anxiety disorders would range from about $16 million in year 1
(about 13,000 people) to about $65 million in year 5 (about 52,000 people).People
with depression or an anxiety disorder with whom we spoke reported that iCBT
improves access for those who face challenges with face-to-face therapy because
of costs, time, or the severity of their condition. They reported that iCBT
provides better control over the pace, time, and location of therapy, as well as 
greater access to educational material. Some reported barriers to iCBT include
the cost of therapy; the need for a computer and internet access, computer
literacy, and the ability to understand complex written information. Language and
disability barriers also exist. Reported limitations to iCBT include the ridigity
of the program, the lack of face-to-face interactions with a therapist,
technological difficulties, and the inability of an internet protocol to treat
severe depression and some types of anxiety disorder.
Conclusions: Compared with waiting list, guided iCBT is effective and likely
results in symptom improvement in mild to moderate major depression and social
phobia. Guided iCBT may improve the symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder and 
panic disorder compared with waiting list. However, we are uncertain about the
effectiveness of iCBT compared with individual or group face-to-face CBT. Guided 
iCBT represents good value for money and could be offered for the short-term
treatment of adults with mild to moderate major depression or anxiety disorders. 
Most people with mild to moderate depression or anxiety disorders with whom we
spoke felt that, despite some perceived limitations, iCBT provides greater
control over the time, pace, and location of therapy. It also improves access for
people who could not otherwise access therapy because of cost, time, or the
nature of their health condition.


PMCID: PMC6394534
PMID: 30873251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219.Affective symptoms and apathy in myotonic dystrophy type 1 a systematic review
and meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: To gain insight into the prevalence of apathy, depression and anxiety
symptoms in myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) patients on the basis of a systematic
review with a meta-analysis.
METHODS: One author systematically searched and selected studies from Embase,
Medline, PsychInfo and Web of Science (index periods up to August 2018). Data
extraction and bias assessment were performed independently by two authors. We
calculated (1) a weighted pooled prevalence and (2) weighted pooled standardized 
mean difference (Hedges' g) from studies comparing DM1 patients to healthy and/or
neuromuscular disease controls separately for symptoms of depression, anxiety and
apathy.
RESULTS: The pooled prevalences of depression (26 studies, n = 1267 DM1
patients), anxiety (19 studies, n = 896) and apathy (5 studies, n = 428), were
18% (95%CI: 12-25), 16 (95%CI: 13-18) and 55% (95%CI: 50-60), respectively.
Effect sizes (Hedges' g) for depression, anxiety and apathy in DM1 patients
compared to healthy controls were 1.04 (95%-CI: 0.71 to 1.37), 0.87 (95%-CI: 0.51
to 1.24) and 1.13 (95%-CI:0.54-1.71). Effect sizes for symptoms of depression,
anxiety and apathy were 0.29 (95% CI: -0.12 to 0.70), 0.45 (95%-CI: -0.31 to
1.22) and 1.12 (95%-CI: 0.32-1.93) for DM1 patients versus neuromuscular disease 
controls. In most analyses, statistical heterogeneity was high.
CONCLUSIONS: Estimated pooled prevalences of clinically significant levels of
symptoms of depression, anxiety and apathy in DM1 are 19, 17 and 55%
respectively. Symptoms of depression and anxiety in DM1 may reflect reactive
adjustment to progressive impairment and restricted participation similar to
other chronic neuromuscular disease. The literature on the prevalence and
severity of apathy, although a clinically relevant and characteristic symptom of 
DM1, is relatively scarce.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.036 
PMID: 30870776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Biological and psychosocial predictors of anxiety worsening in the postpartum
period: A longitudinal study.

BACKGROUND: As many as 20% of women will experience an anxiety disorder during
the perinatal period. Women with pre-existing anxiety disorders are at increased 
risk of worsening during this time, yet little is known about its predictors.
STUDY AIM: To investigate the psychosocial and biological risk factors for
anxiety worsening in the postpartum in women with pre-existing anxiety disorders.
METHODS: Thirty-five (n = 35) pregnant women with pre-existing DSM-5 anxiety
disorders were enrolled in this prospective study investigating the psychosocial 
(e.g., childhood trauma, intolerance of uncertainty, depression) and biological
risk factors (e.g. C-reactive protein, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α)
for anxiety worsening in the postpartum period. Anxiety worsening was defined as 
an increase of ≥50% or greater on Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale scores from the
third trimester of pregnancy (32.94 ± 3.35 weeks) to six weeks postpartum.
RESULTS: Intolerance of uncertainty, depressive symptom severity, and
obsessive-compulsive disorder symptoms present in pregnancy were significant
predictors of anxiety worsening in the postpartum.
LIMITATIONS: Sample heterogeneity and limited sample size may affect study
generalizability.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first longitudinal study to
investigate psychosocial and biological risk factors for anxiety worsening in the
postpartum in women with pre-existing anxiety disorders. Continued research
investigating these risk factors is needed to elucidate whether they differ from 
women experiencing new-onset anxiety disorders in the perinatal period, and those
in non-puerperal groups. Identifying these risk factors can guide the development
of screening measures for early and accurate symptom detection. This can lead to 
the implementation of appropriate interventions aimed at decreasing the risk of
perinatal anxiety worsening.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.02.064 
PMID: 30870771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221.Heightened sensitivity to panic-related sounds with reduced sensitivity to
neutral sounds in preattentive processing among panic patients.

BACKGROUND: Hypervigilance to panic-related stimuli is believed to play a
critical role in the pathogenesis of panic disorder. The current event-related
potential study explored whether this hyperresponsivity occurred in the absence
of focused attention.
METHODS: Mismatch negativity (MMN) responses to panic-related vs. neutral
deviants were assessed in 15 medication-free panic patients without agoraphobia
and 16 healthy controls using a reverse-standard-deviant paradigm.
RESULTS: Panic patients relative to healthy controls exhibited an enhanced MMN in
response to panic-related sounds but a reduced MMN in response to neutral sounds.
Furthermore, MMN responses were delayed in panic patients compared to healthy
controls, irrespective of stimulus type.
LIMITATION: The sample size is relatively small.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide evidence that panic disorder was associated with an
increased sensitivity to panic-related changes, accompanied by a reduced
sensitivity to other acoustic changes as well as a general slow-down of cognitive
processing during the preattentive processing stage.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.019 
PMID: 30870769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222.Neighborhood affluence is not associated with positive and negative valence
processing in adults with mood and anxiety disorders: A Bayesian inference
approach.

Survey-based studies show that neighborhood disadvantage is associated with
community reported mental health problems. However, fewer studies have examined
whether neighborhood characteristics have measurable impact on mental health
status of individuals in general and whether neighborhood characteristics impact 
positive/negative valence processing at both behavioral and brain levels. This
study addressed these questions by investigating effects of census-based
neighborhood affluence on self-reported symptoms, brain functions, and structures
associated with positive/negative valence processing in a sample of individuals
with mood and anxiety disorders (n = 262). Employing a Bayesian inference
approach, our investigation demonstrates that neighborhood affluence fails to be 
associated with positive/negative valence processing measured across multiple
modalities, with the only effects of neighborhood affluence identified in trait
anxiety scores. These findings highlight that while community-based relationships
between neighborhood characteristics and mental health problems are strong, it is
much less clear that these characteristics have a measurable impact on the
individual.



DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2019.101738 
PMCID: PMC6416773
PMID: 30870735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223.Convergent and divergent validity of the schedule for affective disorders and
schizophrenia for school-age children - present and lifetime version diagnoses in
a sample of children and adolescents with obsessive-compulsive disorder.

The presence of comorbid conditions associated with paediatric
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is reported to range from 50 to 80% and to
have an impact on treatment outcome. Accurate identification of comorbid
psychiatric disorders is necessary in order to provide personalised care.
Reliable and valid diagnostic interviews are essential in the process of
establishing the correct diagnoses. The objective of this study was to evaluate
the convergent and divergent validity of four diagnose categories generated by
the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Age Children - 
Present and Lifetime Version (K-SADS-PL). The diagnose categories were: anxiety, 
depression, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and oppositional
defiant disorder (ODD). The K-SADS-PL was applied in a clinical sample of youth
aged 7-17 years (N = 269), who were participants in the Nordic long-term
OCD-treatment study (NordLOTS). Youth and parents completed measures to evaluate 
symptoms of anxiety, depression, ADHD, and ODD. Convergent and divergent validity
of K-SADS-PL anxiety diagnosis was supported based on both anxiety self- and
parent-reports. Similarly, support was found for convergent and divergent
validity of ADHD and ODD diagnoses. For depressive disorder, support for
convergent validity was found based on the depression self-report. Support for
divergent validity of depression was found based on both the depression self- and
parent-reports. Results of the present study suggest that the K-SADS-PL generates
valid diagnoses of comorbid anxiety disorders, depression disorders, ODD, and
ADHD in children and adolescents with OCD.

DOI: 10.1080/08039488.2019.1571628 
PMID: 30870046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224.Neurosis and true dermatosis: a case of ossified pilomatricoma developing within 
a self-inflicted ulcer.

Clinicians have a tendency to dismiss patients with psychiatric illness like skin
picking disorder without assessing completely for organic disease. Patients with 
psychocutaneous disease have the potential to develop true dermatopathology and
should always be examined thoroughly. We describe a case of skin picking disorder
with underlying pilomatricoma. The patient met criteria for skin picking disorder
and had been prescribed numerous topical treatments without efficacy by countless
physicians over 18 years. In addition, a pilomatricoma was discovered within a
self-inflicted ulcer. Pilomatricomas can rarely result from trauma and develop
ossification, both of which were true of this lesion. The prevalence of skin
picking disorder proves more pervasive than previously realized and it has only
recently been recognized by the DSM-5 as an independent diagnosis. Therefore, it 
is necessary to clarify the diagnosis as well as remind clinicians not to
discount underlying dermatologic disease. In addition to the risk of bleeding and
infection, these patients are at risk for masking neoplasms, which should be
removed. Our case emphasizes the need for thorough examination of patients with
psychocutaneous disease and further work-up when necessary to prevent permanent
disfigurement.


PMID: 30865412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225.Inter- and Intra-Hemispheric EEG Coherence Study in Adults with Neuropsychiatric 
Disorders.

Functional connectivity between different regions of the brain in the resting
state has been a recent topic of interest in neurophysiological research. EEG
coherence happened to be an useful tool for measuring changes in
neuro-psycho-physiological functioning which are not detectable by simply
measuring amplitude or power spectra. The aim of our study was to investigate the
changes in the EEG coherence in groups of different mental disorders such as:
depression, general anxiety disorder, ADHD, Asperger syndrome and headaches,
compared to control group. All measures were made in two conditions: eye opened
(EO) and eyes closed (EC). The obtained results show that in EO condition there
is a significantly lower coherence for delta waves between analyzed groups. For
theta coherence only for Asperger syndrome we found lower coherence compared to
control group, ADHD and headaches in parietal region (P3-P4). Obtained results
for intrahemispheric coherence have shown that there was significantly lower
coherence in both conditions for delta and theta bands in almost all sites for
Asperger's syndrome, and opposite increased intrahemispheric coherence for
patients with headaches (for delta band in the anterior regions and for theta
band in the posterior regions). ADHD patients expressed lower delta
inter-hemispheric coherence in frontal regions, and increased coherence of theta 
in central regions but increased delta coherence in posterior regions only in EO 
condition. For depressive and anxiety patients we found decreased
intrahemispheric coherence for EO condition for delta brain waves all over the
cortex. Concerning the coherence in anxiety patients in our current study we have
obtained hypo coherence in centro-parieto-occipital region only for delta in
inter-hemispheric coherence and also lower delta coherence through the cortex for
intrahemispheric coherence. Our findings for interhemispheric hyper coherence in 
subjects with depression specifically for alpha and beta bands were confirmed in 
other studies. We suggest that EEG coherence analysis could be a sensitive
parameter in the detection of electrophysiological abnormalities in patients with
anxiety, depression, ADHD, Asperger syndrome and headaches. These results can
confirm the development of QEEG state and trait biomarkers for psychiatric
disorders.

DOI: 10.2478/prilozi-2018-0037 
PMID: 30864354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226.From isoniazid to psychobiotics: the gut microbiome as a new antidepressant
target.

An awareness of the importance of the gut-brain axis in psychiatric disorders
such as depression is increasing. The gut microbiome is a key component of this
axis. Gut bacteria can communicate with the brain through a variety of pathways
including the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, immune modulation, tryptophan 
metabolism and the production of various neuroactive compounds. Patients with
depression, and other mood and anxiety disorders, show distinct compositional
changes in their gut bacteria profile, raising the question about a possible
aetiological role for the microbiome in these disorders. Evidence is emerging
that the gut microbiome may represent a new potential antidepressant target and
the term 'psychobiotic' has been coined to describe bacteria which confer mental 
health benefits. Gut bacteria are easily accessible and can be altered in a
variety of ways including through the use of probiotics, prebiotics and dietary
change. Psychobiotics containing various Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium
species have demonstrated the ability to improve mood, reduce anxiety and enhance
cognitive function in both healthy populations and patient groups. This article
provides an overview of the identification and development of antidepressant
psychobiotics, from the preclinical evidence in the laboratory to the more recent
encouraging results from human trials.

DOI: 10.12968/hmed.2019.80.3.139 
PMID: 30860919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227.Anxiety, depression and quality of life in acute high risk cardiac disease
patients eligible for wearable cardioverter defibrillator: Results from the
prospective multicenter CRED-registry.

BACKGROUND: Psychological distress is common in patients with cardiovascular
disease and negatively impacts outcome.
HYPOTHESIS: Psychological distress is high in acute high risk cardiac patients
eligible for a WCD, and associated with low quality of life. Distress is
aggravated by WCD.
METHODS: Consecutive patients eligible for a WCD were included in the
prospective, multicenter "Cologne Registry of External Defibrillator" registry.
Quality of life (Short Form-12), depressive symptoms (Beck-Depression Inventory
II) and anxiety (State Trait Anxiety Inventory) were assessed at enrollment and
6-weeks, and associations with WCD prescription were analyzed.
RESULTS: 123 patients (mean [SD] age 59 [± 14] years, 75% male) were included, 85
(69%) of whom received a WCD. At enrollment 21% showed clinically significant
depressive symptoms and 52% anxiety symptoms, respectively. At 6 weeks,
depressive and anxious symptoms significantly decreased to 7% and 25%,
respectively. Depressive symptoms at enrollment and changes at 6 weeks showed
significant associations with health-related quality of life, whereas anxious
symptoms did not. There was a trend for better improvement of depression scores
in patients with WCD (mean [SD] change in score points: -4.1 [6.1] vs -1.8 [3.9];
p = 0.09), whereas change of the anxiousness score was not different (-4.6 [9.5])
vs -3.7 [9.1], p = 0.68).
CONCLUSION: In patients eligible for a WCD, depressive and anxiety symptoms were 
initially common and depressive symptoms showed a strong association with reduced
health-related quality of life contributing to their clinical relevance. WCD
recipients showed at least similar improvement of depression and anxiety at 6
weeks when compared to non recipients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213261 
PMCID: PMC6411111
PMID: 30856204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228.What type of worker are you? Work-related Inventory (WI-10): A comprehensive
instrument for the measurement of workaholism.

BACKGROUND: In literature, there are many instruments for evaluating workaholism;
however, they do not have convergent validity, because of the lack of a shared
definition of workaholism.
OBJECTIVE: We propose a new instrument for evaluating workaholism and work
engagement, namely the Work-related Inventory (WI-10), which is based on Loscalzo
and Giannini's (2017) comprehensive definition of workaholism.
METHODS: We developed a pool of 36 items, covering: 1) addiction symptoms; 2)
obsessive-compulsive symptoms, and 3) work engagement. Then, we conducted
Exploratory and Confirmatory Factor analyses on a sample of 503 Italian workers
(165 males, 337 females, one missing; Mean age = 38.26±10.84) aiming to reduce
the number of items.
RESULTS: The results showed a 10-items (2 filler) and 2-factor solution: 1)
Workaholism and 2) Work Engagement; moreover, the WI-10 has good internal
reliability, convergent and divergent validity.
CONCLUSIONS: We found good psychometric properties for the WI-10. We also
proposed the cut-off scores for the screening of the four kinds of workers
proposed by Loscalzo and Giannini (2017): disengaged workaholics, engaged
workaholics, engaged workers, and detached workers. The WI-10 will be useful for 
both research and preventive and clinical purposes.

DOI: 10.3233/WOR-192875 
PMID: 30856144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229.The psychometrics of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale supports a shorter
-12 item- version.

The diagnosis of patients suffering from both anxiety and depression is complex
due to mixed effects of the two disorders. This complexity has hardened the task 
to find an adapted treatment for these patients. Consequently, several
instruments, known as depression anxiety scales, have been developed and are now 
used internationally by physicians to determine the diagnosis of anxiety and
depression and treat the patients accordingly. This study aims at testing the
consistency and reliability of one of the main anxiety and depression scale which
is composed of 14 items, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). We
have used explanatory factor analysis (EFA) and factor extraction by principal
component analysis (PCA) with orthogonal varimax (Kaiser Normalization) rotation 
on a cohort of 9706 French depressed patients. The relevance of the 14 items
included in the HADS was also scrutinized by measuring the internal consistency
and reliability of the global HADS removing each item one by one. Our conclusion 
is that the HADS could potentially gain in consistency in the detection of
anxiety, notably through the revision of two of the anxiety items.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2019.02.074 
PMID: 30852430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230.Reduction in non-abstinent WHO drinking risk levels and depression/anxiety
disorders: 3-year follow-up results in the US general population.

BACKGROUND: Non-abstinent drinking reductions that predict improvement in how
individuals feel or function, such as the World Health Organization (WHO)
drinking risk levels, may be useful outcomes in clinical trials for alcohol use
disorders (AUD).
METHODS: Current drinkers in a U.S. national survey (n = 22,005) were interviewed
in 2001-02 (Wave 1) and re-interviewed 3 years later (Wave 2). WHO drinking risk 
levels, a 4- level categorization system (very-high-risk, high-risk,
moderate-risk, and low-risk drinkers) defined using estimated mean ethanol
consumption (grams) per day in the prior 12 months, and DSM-IV depressive and
anxiety disorders were assessed at both waves. Logistic regression was used to
produce adjusted odds ratios (aOR) testing the associations of changes between
Wave 1 and Wave 2 WHO risk levels to the presence or persistence of depression
and/or anxiety disorder by each initial Wave 1 risk level.
RESULTS: Among Wave 1 very-high-risk drinkers, lower odds of depression and/or
anxiety disorders at Wave 2 were predicted by reductions in WHO risk levels of
one-, two- or three-levels (aOR = 0.42, 0.37, 0.67, p-values 0.04-<.0001), as was
the persistence of depression and/or anxiety disorders among those with such
disorders at Wave 1 (aOR = 0.37, 0.29, 0.51, p-values .03-<.0001). Results were
less consistent for participants initially drinking at lower risk levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Among very-high-risk drinkers, reductions in the WHO drinking risk
categories were associated with lower risk of depression and/or anxiety
disorders. These results add to findings indicating reductions in WHO risk levels
are a meaningful indicator of how individuals feel and function.



DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2019.01.009 
PMCID: PMC6440807 [Available on 2020-04-01]
PMID: 30852375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231.The Effect of a Pet Therapy and Comparison Intervention on Anxiety in
Hospitalized Children.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of a brief pet therapy visit
and a comparison intervention on anxiety in hospitalized children. This
quasi-experimental study compared state anxiety before and after structured
research interventions in a convenience sample of children between the ages six
and 17 (N = 93) in two groups. Participants were assigned to the pet therapy
group or control group, based upon timing of data collection. Participants in
each group received either a visit from the research assistant, therapy dog and
handler, or from the research assistant for completion of a puzzle. The child's
anxiety was measured using the State-Trait Anxiety Scale for Children (STAIC)
S-Anxiety Scale before and after the visit and parents completed a brief
background questionnaire. Intervention and comparison groups had no significant
differences in key demographic factors or baseline anxiety level. While state
anxiety decreased significantly in both groups, children in the pet therapy group
experienced a significantly greater decrease in anxiety (p = .004). In addition, 
parents reported high levels of satisfaction with the pet therapy program. Study 
findings provide support for a brief pet therapy visit with a trained dog and
handler as a tool decrease to anxiety in hospitalized children while promoting
parent satisfaction. When resources for providing pet therapy visits are limited,
clinicians may consider prioritizing children who are most affected by anxiety.



DOI: 10.1016/j.pedn.2019.03.003 
PMID: 30852256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232.Risk factors for suicidality in Huntington disease: An analysis of the 2CARE
clinical trial.

OBJECTIVE: Most suicidality literature in Huntington disease (HD) is based on
natural history studies or retrospective reviews, but reports on risk factors
from clinical trials are limited.
METHODS: We analyzed 609 participants from 2CARE, a randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled clinical trial with up to 5 years of follow-up, for risk
factors related to suicidality. The primary outcome variable was the time from
randomization until the first occurrence of either suicidal ideation or attempt. 
We also considered time from randomization until the first suicide attempt as a
secondary outcome variable.
RESULTS: Depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, antidepressant or anxiolytic use,
and prior suicide attempt at baseline were associated with time to ideation or
attempt. Baseline employment status, marital status, CAG repeat length,
tetrabenazine use, and treatment assignment (coenzyme Q10 or placebo) were not
associated with suicidality. Time-dependent variables from the Unified
Huntington's Disease Rating Scale Behavioral Assessment were associated with time
to suicidal ideation or attempt, driven mainly by items related to depressed
mood, low self-esteem/guilt, anxiety, suicidal thoughts, irritability, and
compulsions. Variables associated with time to suicide attempt alone were
generally similar.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest psychiatric comorbidities in HD are predictive of 
suicidal behavior while participating in clinical trials, reinforcing the
importance of clinical surveillance and treatment towards lessening risk during
participation and perhaps beyond. Designing a composite algorithm for early
prediction of suicide attempts in HD may be of value, particularly given
anticipated trials aimed at disease modification are likely to be long-term.
CLINICALTRIALSGOV IDENTIFIER: NCT00608881.



DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000007244 
PMCID: PMC6448454 [Available on 2020-04-02]
PMID: 30850442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233.Pharmacological treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder in adults: A clinical 
practice guideline based on the ADAPTE methodology.

Despite the existence of effective evidence-based treatments for the management
of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), the therapeutic approach to this disease 
remains suboptimal. The availability of a therapeutic pharmacological guideline
for OCD could help to improve the management of the disease in our setting and to
reduce the burden of disease for the patient. With the sponsorship of the Spanish
Society of Psychiatry, a group of experts has developed a guideline for the
pharmacological treatment of OCD based on the recommendations of existing
guidelines and following the methodology of the ADAPTE Collaboration. This
article summarises the process of preparing this guideline and the
recommendations adopted by consensus by a guideline panel grouped into five areas
of interest: acute treatment, duration of treatment, predictors of response and
special symptoms, partial response to lack of response to treatment, and special 
populations.



DOI: 10.1016/j.rpsm.2019.01.003 
PMID: 30850318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234.Internalizing and externalizing factors on the pathway from adverse experiences
in childhood to non-medical prescription opioid use in adulthood.

BACKGROUND: Research demonstrates strong associations between adverse childhood
experiences (ACEs) and non-medical prescription opioid use (NMPO), but pathways
are not understood, hindering prevention and treatment responses.
METHODS: We assessed hypothesized mediators of the association between ACEs and
NMPO in a nationally-representative U.S.
SAMPLE: National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent to Adult Health data
(N = 12,288) yielded an ordinal exposure comprising nine ACEs (neglect;
emotional, physical, sexual abuse; parental incarceration and binge drinking;
witnessed, threatened with, experienced violence) and a binary lifetime NMPO
outcome. Nine potential mediators measured in adolescence and/or adulthood
included depression, anxiety, suicidality, delinquency, impulsivity, and
risk-taking. We estimated adjusted odds ratios (AOR) and 95% confidence intervals
(CI) for sex-stratified associations of: ACEs and mediators; mediators and NMPO; 
and ACEs and NMPO adjusting for mediators individually and simultaneously.
RESULTS: All associations of ACEs and mediators were statistically significant
and similar by sex. All mediators had statistically significant associations with
NMPO (except one depression measurement for each sex). Delinquency was strongly
associated with ACEs and NMPO and was the strongest individual mediator. Every
ACE increase was associated with increased NMPO odds of 32% for males and 27% for
females. Adjusting for all mediators, odds of NMPO were attenuated partially for 
males [AOR = 1.18 (95% CI:1.07, 1.31)] and somewhat more for females [AOR = 1.11 
(95% CI:1.00, 1.25)].
CONCLUSIONS: Internalizing and externalizing factors partially explained the
pathway from ACEs to NMPO. Substance abuse may be more difficult to treat with
co-occurring psychopathologies and maladaptive behaviors, highlighting the need
to address trauma early in life.



DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2018.12.029 
PMCID: PMC6507420 [Available on 2020-04-01]
PMID: 30849646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235.Multi-state models of transitions in depression and anxiety symptom severity and 
cardiovascular events in patients with coronary heart disease.

OBJECTIVE: Patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) commonly suffer from
depression and anxiety, yet transitions of symptom severity and cardiovascular
events (CVE) over time are not well characterized.
METHODS: We included 997 patients with stable CHD from a prospective cohort
study. We estimated 5- and 10-year transition probabilities of depression and
anxiety symptom severity levels and fatal- and non-fatal adverse CVE. Depression 
and anxiety symptoms were measured with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale
5 times over 13 years and categorized as no, mild, or moderate/severe symptoms.
Using multi-state modeling, we calculated 5- and 10-year transition probabilities
for depression and anxiety symptom severity and CVE and calculated transition
intensity ratios for factors associated with symptom severity progression and
regression.
RESULTS: At 5 years, only approximately half of participants with moderate or
severe symptom severity at baseline transitioned to no symptom severity. Patients
with low physical activity (<1x/week or never) had a higher probability of worse 
symptom severity after 5 and 10 years and a higher probability of a CVE after 5
and 10 years regardless of their depression status at baseline compared to higher
physical activity groups. Higher body mass index, <10 years of education, and
lower physical activity were associated with depression symptom progression;
female and lower physical activity were associated with anxiety symptom
progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with CHD had a consistent burden of depression and anxiety 
symptoms. Secondary prevention strategies should target depression and anxiety
and include a physical activity component.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213334 
PMCID: PMC6405099
PMID: 30845176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236.Stress and the gut microbiota-brain axis.

Stress is a nonspecific response of the body to any demand imposed upon it,
disrupting the body homoeostasis and manifested with symptoms such as anxiety,
depression or even headache. These responses are quite frequent in the present
competitive world. The aim of this review is to explore the effect of stress on
gut microbiota. First, we summarize evidence of where the microbiota composition 
has changed as a response to a stressful situation, and thereby the effect of the
stress response. Likewise, we review different interventions that can modulate
microbiota and could modulate the stress according to the underlying mechanisms
whereby the gut-brain axis influences stress. Finally, we review both preclinical
and clinical studies that provide evidence of the effect of gut modulation on
stress. In conclusion, the influence of stress on gut microbiota and gut
microbiota on stress modulation is clear for different stressors, but although
the preclinical evidence is so extensive, the clinical evidence is more limited. 
A better understanding of the mechanism underlying stress modulation through the 
microbiota may open new avenues for the design of therapeutics that could boost
the pursued clinical benefits. These new designs should not only focus on stress 
but also on stress-related disorders such as anxiety and depression, in both
healthy individuals and different populations.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000478 
PMID: 30844962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237.Aggression directed towards others vs. aggression directed towards the self:
clinical differences between intermittent explosive disorder and nonsuicidal
self-injury.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical differences between intermittent explosive
disorder (IED) (disorder of aggression primarily directed towards others) and
nonsuicidal self-injury (NSSI) (disorder of aggression predominantly directed
towards the self) in order to better understand the different clinical subtypes
of aggression.
METHODS: We used treatment-seeking samples to compare demographic and clinical
correlates between 82 participants with IED and 55 participants with NSSI.
RESULTS: The IED group was older, more likely to be male, in a relationship, and 
employed than the NSSI group. With respect to clinical variables, the NSSI group 
had more severe depressive symptoms and more social adjustment difficulties.
Regarding psychiatric co-morbidities, the IED group had higher rates of
generalized anxiety disorder. On the other hand, the NSSI group had higher rates 
of major depressive disorder, agoraphobia, substance use disorder, and bulimia
nervosa.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals with NSSI may benefit from better management of
psychiatric comorbidities, specifically depressive symptoms and social adjustment
difficulties. Conversely, the treatment of individuals with IED may be improved
by targeting comorbid generalized anxiety disorder. Our results provide important
insight for the development of tailored interventions for specific subtypes of
aggression.

DOI: 10.1590/1516-4446-2018-0149 
PMCID: PMC6804311
PMID: 30843959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238.Efficacy of an internet-based exposure treatment for flying phobia (NO-FEAR
Airlines) with and without therapist guidance: a randomized controlled trial.

BACKGROUND: Internet-based treatments appear to be a promising way to enhance the
in vivo exposure approach, specifically in terms of acceptability and access to
treatment. However, the literature on specific phobias is scarce, and, as far as 
we know, there are no studies on Flying Phobia (FP). This study aims to
investigate the effectiveness of an Internet-based exposure treatment for FP
(NO-FEAR Airlines) that includes exposure scenarios composed of images and
sounds, versus a waiting-list control group. A secondary aim is to explore two
ways of delivering NO-FEAR Airlines, with and without therapist guidance.
METHODS: A randomized controlled trial (RCT) was conducted in which 69
participants were allocated to: 1) NO-FEAR Airlines totally self-applied, 2)
NO-FEAR Airlines with therapist guidance, 3) a waiting-list control group.
Primary outcome measures were the Fear of Flying Questionnaire-II and the Fear of
Flying Scale. Secondary outcomes included the Fear and Avoidance Scales,
Clinician Severity Scale, and Patient's Improvement scale. Behavioral outcomes
(post-treatment flights and safety behaviors) were also included. Mixed-model
analyses with no ad hoc imputations were conducted for primary and secondary
outcome measures.
RESULTS: NO-FEAR Airlines (with and without therapist guidance) was significantly
effective, compared to the waiting list control group, on all primary and
secondary outcomes (all ps < .05), and no significant differences were found
between the two ways of delivering the intervention. Significant improvements on 
diagnostic status and reliable change indexes were also found in both treatment
groups at post-treatment. Regarding behavioral outcomes, significant differences 
in safety behaviors were found at post-treatment, compared to the waiting list.
Treatment gains were maintained at 3- and 12-month follow-ups.
CONCLUSION: FP can be treated effectively via the Internet. NO-FEAR Airlines
helps to enhance the exposure technique and provide access to evidence-based
psychological treatment to more people in need. These data are congruent with
previous studies highlighting the usefulness of computer-assisted exposure
programs for FP, and they contribute to the literature on Internet-based
interventions. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first RCT to investigate
the effectiveness of an Internet-based treatment for FP and explore two ways of
delivering the intervention (with and without therapist guidance).
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02298478 (
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02298478 ). Trial registration date 3
November 2014.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-019-2060-4 
PMCID: PMC6404352
PMID: 30841930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Dispositional resilience in treatment-seeking patients with obsessive-compulsive 
disorder and its association with treatment outcome.

There is a lack of research on the relation between obsessive-compulsive disorder
(OCD) and resilience. Dispositional resilience, as described and defined in
literature on hardiness, consists of three facets, namely beliefs about having
control in everyday living, having a sense of purpose or commitment, and a
positive attitude toward challenges. This study explores associations between
dispositional resilience (measured with the Dispositional Resilience Scale
(DRS-15-R)), symptom severity, and treatment outcome in a sample of 89 patients
treated with concentrated exposure therapy (cET), and compares the findings with 
scores from two reference groups (students and soldiers). The patient group had
significantly lower resilience scores than the two reference groups. Weak
correlations were observed between dispositional resilience and OCD symptoms.
Differences in dispositional resilience were weakly related to remission status
at follow-up (odds ratio of 1.11). Furthermore, resilience improved from pre- to 
post-treatment (Cohen's d of 0.65). Our results imply that patients' initial
resilience score does not hinder nor facilitate treatment effects to a great
extent in this format of ERP treatment.



DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12531 
PMID: 30841013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240.Association of GA genotype of SNP rs4680 in COMT gene with psoriasis.

Psoriasis is a multigene and multifactorial skin disease with heterogeneous
genetic inheritance. Mental disorders participate in the development of psoriasis
as predisposing factors; a correlation of dermatological diseases with
pathological anxiety and stress was shown. Meanwhile, there are no studies
describing molecular mechanisms of the linkages between psycho-emotional
disorders and skin diseases. The aim of this study is to find the associations
between SNP in genes COMT (rs4680), DBH (rs141116007), CCKAR (rs1800857) and
CCKBR (rs1805002), and psoriasis. Patients were selected according to the 10th
revision of International Classification of Diseases (L-40). The sample size was 
88 patients. The size of the control sample (population control) was 365 people. 
Genotyping was performed using PCR-RFLP and real-time PCR. Statistical analysis
was performed using WinPepi software. Identification of complex genotypes was
performed by the Monte Carlo method using APSampler 3.6.1 algorithm. Among the
studied genes, only GA genotype of COMT gene is significantly associated with
psoriasis [χ2 = 19.163 (p = 1.3E-5), F (p) = 1.2E-5, OR 3.47 (CI
99% = 1.61-7.91)]. At the moment, the functional significance of this phenomenon 
is difficult to explain.

DOI: 10.1007/s00403-019-01904-1 
PMID: 30840133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241.Explaining the association between anxiety disorders and alcohol use disorder: A 
twin study.

BACKGROUND: It is unknown whether social anxiety disorder (SAD) has a unique
association with alcohol use disorder (AUD) over and beyond that of other anxiety
disorders, how the associations develop over time, and whether the associations
are likely to be causal.
METHODS: Diagnoses of AUD, SAD, generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder,
agoraphobia, and specific phobias were assessed twice using the Composite
International Diagnostic Interview among 2,801 adult Norwegian twins. The data
were analyzed using logistic regression analyses and multivariate biometric
structural equation modeling.
RESULTS: SAD had the strongest association with AUD, and SAD predicted AUD over
and above the effect of other anxiety disorders. In addition, SAD was
prospectively associated with AUD, whereas other anxiety disorders were not. AUD 
was associated with a slightly elevated risk of later anxiety disorders other
than SAD. Biometric modeling favored a model where SAD influenced AUD compared to
models where the relationship was reversed or due to correlated risk factors.
Positive associations between AUD and other anxiety disorders were fully
explained by shared genetic risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Unlike other anxiety disorders, SAD plausibly has a direct effect on
AUD. Interventions aimed at prevention or treatment of SAD may have an additional
beneficial effect of preventing AUD, whereas interventions aimed at other anxiety
disorders are unlikely to have a similar sequential effect on AUD.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22886 
PMCID: PMC6548587 [Available on 2020-06-01]
PMID: 30838764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242.A clinical TRIAD for early suspicion of autoimmune encephalitis as a possibility 
in patients presenting with progressive cognitive decline.

Patients with progressive cognitive decline mostly suffer from degenerative
disease and carry a relatively poor prognosis. But small groups among these
patients have a potentially treatable cause of illness and therefore every
patient with dementia needs to be considered treatable unless proved otherwise.
This group can be identified only by high degree of suspicion based on clinical
clues. We have evaluated the validity of some simple clinical clues which we
noticed in our patients with immune mediated dementias. The Panic score, Epsworth
sleepiness score, catatonic symptoms and history of seizures were compared
between 23 and 11 patients with serologically confirmed anti-NMDA antibody and
anti-VGKC antibody associated encephalitis respectively. They were compared with 
20 patients with probable behavioral variant of Frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD)
and 20 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). Chi-square test was used 
to compare across the groups and there was significant difference (P < 0.05)
across the 4 groups comprising anti NMDA encephalitis, anti VGKC encephalitis,
FTD and AD among the four variables (Panic scores, Catatonic symptoms, Epsworth
sleepiness score and seizures) studied. Our study revealed that panic and
sleepiness is highly significant when tested across all groups and catatonia
showed a trend towards NMDA and when compared with degenerative dementia versus
immune mediated syndromes all the 4 parameters were highly significant This
simple bedside TRIAD of panic, sleepiness with either of catatonia or seizures if
found in patients it is appropriate to order antibody assessment before anything 
else is planned. This needs to be evaluated in a larger sample.



DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2019.02.013 
PMID: 30836326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243.Galphimine-B Standardized Extract versus Alprazolam in Patients with Generalized 
Anxiety Disorder: A Ten-Week, Double-Blind, Randomized Clinical Trial.

Galphimine-B (G-B), a compound isolated from Galphimia glauca, has been shown to 
possess important anxiolytic activity. In this study, we evaluated the
effectiveness and tolerability of a G-B standardized extract (experimental
treatment) that was administered daily for 10 weeks in patients with moderate or 
severe Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD). Alprazolam was used as control
treatment and administered under the same conditions. A total of 167 patients
were included. At the start of the study, the severe anxiety condition prevailed,
with an average on the Hamilton Anxiety Scale of 35.1 ± 8.8 and 35.8 ± 8.1 points
in the control and experimental groups, respectively. After the 10 weeks of
administration, the average was reduced in the control group to 4.6 ± 6.5 points 
and in the experimental group to 3.5 ± 5.5 points. Therapeutic success in the
control group was 85.7% and in the experimental group, 92.0%. A high proportion
of patients (22.2%) treated with Alprazolam manifested daytime sleepiness, while 
in the group treated with the G-B standardized extract, daytime sleepiness was
found in 4.7%. In conclusion, a G-B standardized extract demonstrated therapeutic
effectiveness in patients with GAD, without exhibiting significant difference
with Alprazolam, but showing fewer cases of daytime sleepiness. The trial was
registered at http://clinicaltrials.gov by identifier: NCT03702803.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/1037036 
PMCID: PMC6374797
PMID: 30834253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244.Stress reactivity in healthy child offspring of parents with anxiety disorders.

Several studies suggest that anxiety disorders (AD) involve dysregulation of the 
autonomic nervous system (ANS) and hypothalamic-pituitary (HPA) axis. However, it
is unknown if alterations in these biological systems are premorbid markers of AD
risk or a state-dependent feature of anxiety. This study examined ANS and
HPA-axis response to a laboratory stressor in healthy child offspring of parents 
with (n = 55) and without (n = 98) a history of AD. High frequency heart rate
variability (HF-HRV) was assessed during sitting and standing baseline conditions
and during a speech task where participants remained standing. Salivary cortisol 
was measured at baseline and at 15, 30, 45 and 60 min post-speech. Subjective
anxiety was assessed with a visual analogue scale. Children of parents with AD
displayed reduced HRV and a blunted cortisol response to the speech task compared
to children of non-anxious parents. No risk group effect was found for anxiety
ratings. These preliminary data suggest that healthy children of anxious parents 
exhibit altered stress reactivity to an acute laboratory stressor. Further
research is needed to confirm findings and identify mechanisms that may account
for altered self-regulation processes to a stressor in children at familial risk 
for AD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.171 
PMID: 30832196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245.Negative abortion experiences: predictors and development of post-abortion
psychological and relational adjustment scale.

Associations between several personal and contextual predic-tors of negative
post-abortion mental health outcomes were explored using a large national sample 
of U.S. women who sought out post-abortion care from a crisis pregnancy center.
The predictors examined included decisional regret, pregnancy wantedness, various
forms of pressure, understanding of the procedure, and satisfaction with
counseling provided by the abortion facility. Well-established measures of
depression, anxiety, and substance abuse in addition to a newly developed
assessment of abortion-related out-comes, the Post-Abortion Psychological and
Relational Adjustment Scale (PAPRAS) were employed as the criteria in regression 
models. All analyses included controls for pre-abortion psychological adjustment 
and various forms of abuse in addition to a number of demographic variables. When
the PAPRAS served as the outcome measure, the abortion context variables as a
group accounted for 45.8% of the variance in women's post-abortion psychological 
and relational adjustment scores. Using the same sets of pre-dictors in a series 
of regression models and employing established measures of general anxiety,
depression, PTSD, alcohol abuse, and substance abuse, 3.5% to 8.8% of the
variance was explained. Based on psychometric analy-sis of the PAPRAS, there is
evidence that this newly developed instrument holds promise for addressing the
unique post-abortion mental health and relational concerns of women.



PMID: 30831009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246.Interpersonal change as a mediator of the within- and between-patient
alliance-outcome association in two treatments for generalized anxiety disorder.

OBJECTIVE: Although a better therapeutic alliance associates with treatment
outcome, it may do so in different ways. For example, alliance quality may
promote improvement as it shifts over time (within-patient changes);
alternatively, alliance quality may also, or instead, influence outcome when
generally higher or lower for some patients relative to others (between-patient
differences). Although both components have been linked to patient improvement,
the distinct mechanisms of these associations have been rarely examined.
Conceptually, it follows that within-patient alliance fluctuations (representing 
the changing nature of a current relationship intended to be ameliorative) may
facilitate other interpersonal improvements that could, in turn, translate into
symptom reduction. This path squares with the corrective relational experience
notion. In contrast, whereas as patients' average alliances across therapy may
generally facilitate or hinder improvement, the mechanism may not be other
relationship functioning. This squares with the notion that when people generally
experience good alliances with their therapist, it may reflect an existing
relational ability that catalyzes the effectiveness of other nonrelational
therapeutic means. This study tested these distinct hypotheses.
METHOD: Patients (N = 85) with generalized anxiety disorder were randomly
assigned to cognitive-behavioral therapy, either alone or integrated with
motivational interviewing. They rated alliance quality, interpersonal problems,
and outcome repeatedly.
RESULTS: Using multilevel structural equation modeling, both within- and
between-patient alliances related to subsequent worry reduction. As predicted,
change in interpersonal problems mediated the association only at the
within-patient level.
CONCLUSIONS: Results contribute to the literature on mechanisms of the within-
and between-person alliance-outcome association. (PsycINFO Database Record (c)
2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/ccp0000394 
PMID: 30829505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247.Operationalized Psychodynamic Diagnosis System and Outcome of Psychodynamic
Inpatient Psychotherapy in Male and Female Patients.

OBJECTIVE: To compare male and female patients with regard to the Operationalized
Psychodynamic Diagnosis (OPD-2) system, treatment variables, and outcome after
multimodal psychodynamic inpatient psychotherapy.
METHODS: At the beginning and at the end of inpatient treatment in a multimodal
psychodynamic setting, patients were examined with the OPD-2 systemas well as
with three self-assessment questionnaires addressing interpersonal problems
(Inventory of Interpersonal Problems, IIP), and psychopathology: Brief
SymptomInventory (BSI) and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS).
RESULTS: Data of 850 patients (238 males, 28%), 612 females, 72%) were available 
for analysis. There were differences between men and women in the main diagnoses,
with a higher proportion of eating disorders and a longer treatment duration
among the women. Therapy discontinuation rates were low and did not differ
between the sexes. Women scored higher on psychopathology at admission on the
BSIGlobal Score, IIP and anxiety; the pattern of reported interpersonal problems 
was consistent with sex roles. While the level of structural integration was
similar in both sexes, the distribution of the two main conflicts and the level
of improvement of awareness and dealing with the psychodynamic foci showed
significant differences. Overall, at the end of inpatient psychotherapy, there
was a mean improvement in both men and women, with no significant differences
between them. Because of higher scores at the start of psychotherapy, the effect 
sizes for improvement were higher for women.
CONCLUSIONS: On the whole, both sexes seem to benefit equally from psychodynamic 
inpatient psychotherapy in terms of symptom improvement.

Publisher: Zusammenfassung Operationalisierte Psychodynamische Diagnostik und
Outcome einer stationären psychodynamischen Psychotherapie bei Männern und Frauen
Fragestellung: Vergleich der Operationalisierten Psychodynamischen Diagnostik
(OPD), von Behandlungsvariablen und Outcome einer multimodalen stationären
psychodynamischen Psychotherapie zwischen Männern und Frauen. Methoden: Zu Beginn
und Ende einer multimodalen stationären psychodynamischen Psychotherapie wurden
die OPD und Selbsteinschätzungsfragebögen erhoben, die interpersonelle Probleme
(Inventar Interpersoneller Probleme IIP) und Psychopathologie erfassen: Brief
Symptom Inventory (BSI) und Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS).
Ergebnisse: Auswertbare Daten lagen von 850 Patienten vor, davon 612 Frauen
(72%). Es gab Geschlechterunterschiede bezüglich der Haupt-Behandlungsdiagnose,
mit mehr Essstörungen und längerer Behandlungsdauer für Frauen. Die Abbruchraten 
waren niedrig und zwischen den Geschlechtern nicht unterschiedlich. Frauen hatten
bei Aufnahme signifikant höhere Skalenwerte für den BSI-Globalwert, die IIP-Summe
und Ängstlichkeit. Das Muster der berichteten interpersonellen Probleme entsprach
gesellschaftlichen Geschlechterrollen. Weitere Geschlechterunterschiede fanden
sich bezüglich der Verteilung der beiden neurotischen Hauptkonflikte und der
Fokusveränderung auf der Heidelberger Umstrukturierungsskala, nicht jedoch im
Strukturniveau. Beide Geschlechter zeigten signifikante Verbesserungen bezüglich 
der Psychopathologie von der Aufnahme zur Entlassung, ohne signifikante
Geschlechterunterschiede. Aufgrund der höheren Symptomausprägung bei Aufnahme
waren die Effektstärken bei Frauen höher. Diskussion: Insgesamt scheinen beide
Geschlechter in ähnlichem Ausmaß von der stationären psychodynamischen
Psychotherapie zu profitieren.
DOI: 10.13109/zptm.2018.64.3.281 
PMID: 30829160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248.Meningioma and mood: exploring the potential for meningioma to affect
psychological distress before and after surgical removal.

Background: Much of the research exploring psychological distress with meningioma
stem from studies including several brain tumour types (including malignant
tumours) meaning that focus on meningioma is limited and that conclusions are
based on small samples. Moreover, contradictory findings have been reported
regarding the effects of meningioma on mood. Here, the authors present a study
exploring pre and post mood scores in meningioma only patients using a sample
size larger than any previous research attempt. Method: The Hospital Anxiety and 
Depression Scale (HADS) was used as an objective measure of mood in a clinical
sample of 184 UK patients pre and post meningioma removal surgery. Repeated
measures designs were used to assess for significant differences in depression
and anxiety scores before and after surgery, chi-squared analyses were used to
establish for clinically significant change. Results: The study revealed a
significant decrease, and a medium effect size, in mean depression scores after
surgery to remove the meningioma (p = .002, g = 0.35). However, no significant
effect was found following meningioma removal and anxiety scores (p = .113,
g = 0.17). Discussion: No significant effects were determined between mood and
meningioma location. A discussion of the findings, and potential implications, is
presented.

DOI: 10.1080/02688697.2019.1571163 
PMID: 30829086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249.Association between miscellaneous symptoms and primary symptom dimensions among
chinese adults with obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Obsessive compulsive-disorder (OCD) is a common mental illness characterized by
the presence of obsessions and/or compulsions. Symptom presence and severity is
typically evaluated through the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS).
However, miscellaneous symptoms embedded within the Y-BOCS Symptom Checklist have
often been overlooked despite being associated with certain dimensions. In this
study, we used exploratory factor analysis and logistic regression to explore the
relationship between various miscellaneous symptoms and OCD symptom dimensions
among 123 Chinese adults with OCD. A four-dimensional model was factorially
derived: Obsessions, Symmetry/Ritual, Contamination/Cleaning and
Contamination/Cleaning. In general, 11 out of 17 miscellaneous symptoms were
associated with one or more of the symptom dimensions. Among them, the Obsessions
dimension was significantly associated with seven miscellaneous symptoms: "Fear
of not saying just the right thing," "Intrusive (non-violent) images," "Intrusive
nonsense sounds, words", etc. The Symmetry/Ritual dimension was significantly
associated with "Need to tell, ask, or confess." The Contamination/Cleaning
dimension was related to "Need to know or remember". The Hoarding/Religion
dimension was related to "Fear of losing things," and "Superstitious fears".
Results contribute to the clinical assessment, diagnosis and treatment of Chinese
patients with OCD by understanding the extent to which certain miscellaneous
symptoms are associated with primary symptom dimensions.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2019.02.042 
PMID: 30825727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250.Clinically relevant anxiety and risk of Alzheimer's disease in an elderly
community sample: 4.5 years of follow-up.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate whether clinically relevant anxiety increased the risk
for developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) while controlling for the presence of
depression and other confounders; and to report the population attributable
fraction (PAF) associated with anxiety disorder.
METHOD: We used data from the longitudinal, community-based Zaragoza Dementia and
Depression (ZARADEMP) study. A random sample of 4057 dementia-free community
dwellers aged ≥55 years were followed for 4.5 years. The Geriatric Mental
State-Automated Geriatric Examination for Computer Assisted Taxonomy package was 
used for the diagnosis of clinically significant cases and subcases of anxiety;
and AD was diagnosed by a panel of research psychiatrists according to DSM-IV
criteria. Multivariate survival analysis with competing risk regression model was
performed.
RESULTS: We observed a significant association between anxiety cases at baseline 
and AD risk in the univariate analysis that persisted in the fully adjusted model
(SHR: 3.90; 95% CI: 1.59-9.60; p = 0.003), with a PAF for AD of 6.11% (95% CI:
1.30%-16.17%). No significant association between 'subcases' of anxiety at
baseline and AD risk was found.
LIMITATIONS: Data on apolipoprotein E were not available. The hospital-based
diagnosis was not completed in all cases of dementia.
CONCLUSION: Late-life, clinically significant anxiety (but not subclinical
anxiety) seems to increase the risk of AD, independently of the effect of several
confounders, including depression. Taking into account the high prevalence of
anxiety among the elderly, future studies are warranted to determine potential
risk reduction of AD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.02.050 
PMID: 30825716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251.Different Disgust Domains Specifically Relate to Mental and Contact Contamination
Fear in Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: Evidence From a Path Analytic Model in an 
Italian Clinical Sample.

Both contact contamination (CC) and mental contamination (MC) fears-which
combined represent the most common manifestation of obsessive-compulsive disorder
(OCD)-have been widely associated with disgust propensity. However, extant
research explored this relationship using measures assessing only
pathogen-related disgust, not taking into account the potential role played by
sexual and moral disgust, despite literature about MC suggesting that this might 
be particularly relevant. In Study 1, the psychometric properties of the Italian 
version of the Three Domains of Disgust Scale (TDDS) were assessed in a large
Italian community sample. Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses confirmed 
the three-factor structure of the TDDS. The scale also showed good internal
consistency and construct validity. In Study 2, the differential patterns of
relationships between CC and MC and the three disgust domains were explored in an
Italian clinical OCD sample using a path analytic approach. The TDDS-Pathogen
subscale was a unique predictor of CC while the TDDS-Sexual subscale was a unique
predictor of MC, after controlling for anxiety and depression. Surprisingly, the 
TDDS-Moral subscale was not a predictor of either domain of contamination fear.
Limitations and clinical implications are discussed.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.07.006 
PMID: 30824253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. The Struggle of Behavioral Therapists With Exposure: Self-Reported
Practicability, Negative Beliefs, and Therapist Distress About Exposure-Based
Interventions.

Exposure-based interventions are a core ingredient of evidence-based
cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT) for anxiety disorders, posttraumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD), and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). However, previous
research has documented that exposure is rarely utilized in routine care,
highlighting an ongoing lack of dissemination. The present study examined
barriers for the dissemination of exposure from the perspective of behavioral
psychotherapists working in outpatient routine care (N = 684). A postal survey
assessed three categories of barriers: (a) practicability of exposure-based
intervention in an outpatient private practice setting, (b) negative beliefs
about exposure, and (c) therapist distress related to the use of exposure. In
addition, self-reported competence to conduct exposure for different anxiety
disorders, PTSD, and OCD was assessed. High rates of agreement were found for
single barriers within each of the three categories (e.g., unpredictable time
management, risk of uncompensated absence of the patient, risk of decompensation 
of the patient, superficial effectiveness, or exposure being very strenuous for
the therapist). Separately, average agreement to each category negatively
correlated with self-reported utilization of exposure to a moderate degree (-.35 
≤ r ≤ -.27). In a multiple regression model, only average agreement to barriers
of practicability and negative beliefs were significantly associated with
utilization rates. Findings illustrate that a multilevel approach targeting
individual, practical, and systemic barriers is necessary to optimize the
dissemination of exposure-based interventions. Dissemination efforts may
therefore benefit from incorporating strategies such as modifying negative
beliefs, adaptive stress management for therapists, or increasing practicability 
of exposure-based interventions.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.07.003 
PMID: 30824251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253.Defining Treatment Outcomes in Pediatric Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder Using a
Self-Report Scale.

This study examined benchmarks of treatment response and clinical remission on
the Obsessive Compulsive Inventory-Child Version (OCI-CV) for youth with
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Participants were 91 youth who enrolled in a
randomized controlled trial that examined the benefit of augmenting cognitive
behavior therapy (CBT) with either d-cycloserine or placebo. Youth completed the 
OCI-CV at baseline, Week 4 (prior to initiating exposure therapy), and
posttreatment. Receiver operator curve (ROC) analyses examined optimal benchmarks
for treatment response and clinical remission as identified by independent
evaluators at the posttreatment assessment using the Clinical Global Impression
(CGI) scales of Improvement (CGI-Improvement), Severity (CGI-Severity), and
Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (CY-BOCS). Optimal benchmarks
for treatment response were a 20%-25% reduction in the OCI-CV total score.
Meanwhile, optimal benchmarks for remission were a 55%-65% reduction in the
OCI-CV total score and a posttreatment total score ≤6-8. OCI-CV benchmarks
exhibited moderate agreement with the CY-BOCS for treatment response and clinical
remission. Meanwhile, fair agreement was observed for response and remission with
CGI scales. A lower pretreatment OCI-CV total score was associated with less
agreement between classification approaches. Findings provide benchmarks for
classifying treatment response and clinical remission in an efficient manner.
Given the moderate agreement between the CY-BOCS and OCI-CV benchmarks, the
OCI-CV may serve as a useful alternative when clinician-rated scales cannot be
administered due to limited resources (e.g., time, training). Thus,
evidence-based measurement can be incorporated to monitor therapeutic response
and remission in clinical practice.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.06.003 
PMCID: PMC6541025 [Available on 2020-03-01]
PMID: 30824248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254.Does Motivation Impact OCD Symptom Severity? An Exploration of Longitudinal
Effects.

Understanding the role of patient motivation in OCD treatment is of clinical
importance given the requisite autonomous role of patients in Exposure and
Response Prevention. The present study investigated state- and trait-like
relations between three variables: two previously established motivational
constructs, readiness to change (RTC) and committed action (CA), derived from the
University of Rhode Island Change Assessment, and OCD symptom severity as
measured by the self-report Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS-SR).
Utilizing a random-intercept cross-lagged panel model (RI-CLPM) design, we
assessed autoregressive, within-time correlations, and cross-lagged effects of
RTC, CA, and Y-BOCS-SR scores at admission, month 1 of treatment, and discharge
from an intensive/residential treatment program for OCD. Results revealed
significant autoregressive (i.e., state-like) effects for CA and Y-BOCS-SR,
negative within-time correlations between state CA and Y-BOCS-SR across all time 
points, a positive within-time correlation between state CA and RTC at admission,
and a cross-lagged effect between state Y-BOCS-SR at month 1 of treatment and
state RTC at discharge. Results also demonstrated that the stability of the RTC
variable was attributable to trait-like factors in the present sample. This study
is novel in its use of RI-CLPM in an OCD sample and represents an important
addition to the literature on the longitudinal impacts of dynamic constructs of
motivation. Our findings may provide future researchers with strategies to
supplement ERP with CA-driven motivational interviewing.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.06.001 
PMID: 30824247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255.The "Brightening" Effect: Reactions to Positive Events in the Daily Lives of
Individuals With Major Depressive Disorder and Generalized Anxiety Disorder.

Depressed individuals are less reactive than healthy individuals to positive
stimuli in the laboratory, but accumulating evidence suggests that they are more 
emotionally reactive to positive events in their daily lives. The present study
probed the boundaries of this curious "mood brightening" effect and investigated 
its specificity to major depressive disorder (MDD) vis-à-vis generalized anxiety 
disorder (GAD), its closest boundary condition. We used ecological momentary
assessment to measure reactions to positive events over one week in individuals
with MDD (n = 38), GAD (n = 36), comorbid MDD-GAD (n = 38), and no
psychopathology (n = 33). Depressed individuals responded to positive events with
larger changes in affect, cognition, reported withdrawal (but not approach)
behavior, and symptoms than healthy controls. More severe depression assessed
before the sampling week predicted greater brightening. Altered reactivity to
positive events was relatively specific to MDD when compared with GAD, similar to
patterns found for other positive emotional processes. The robustness, scope, and
relative specificity of the brightening effect highlights the need to resolve
conflicting findings across laboratory and non-laboratory studies to advance
understanding of altered reactivity in emotional disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.05.008 
PMCID: PMC6494459 [Available on 2020-03-01]
PMID: 30824245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256.Association of anxiety symptoms with health care use and costs in people aged 85 
and over.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the association of anxiety symptoms with health care use
and costs in people aged 85 and older.
METHODS: Baseline data from AgeQualiDe (N = 856), a multicenter prospective
cohort study of primary care patients aged 85 and older, were analyzed. Anxiety
symptoms (Geriatric Anxiety Inventory-Short Form) and health care use were
assessed via questionnaires. Health care use was monetarily valued using German
unit costs to obtain sectoral (inpatient, outpatient, nursing care, medical
supplies, and medication) and total costs. Health care use and costs were
analyzed in regression models as a function of anxiety symptoms, as well as
relevant covariates (predisposing, enabling, and other need characteristics based
on the Behavioral Model of Health Care Use).
RESULTS: On a descriptive level, people with increased anxiety symptoms (12% of
the sample) incurred on average € 10 909 (SD: 16 023) in the last 6 months, 31%
more than those without increased anxiety (€ 8303, SD: 11 175; P = 0.12).
Adjusting for predisposing, enabling, and other need characteristics, anxiety
symptoms were not significantly associated with health care use or costs.
Specifically, need characteristics (morbidity, cognitive decline, and functional 
impairment) were associated with total or sectoral costs, depending on the cost
category analyzed.
CONCLUSION: In a sample of people of the oldest-old age group, the severity of
anxiety symptoms was not associated with health care use or costs, when adjusting
for relevant covariates. A longitudinal analysis could assess whether a change in
anxiety symptom severity is associated with health care use or costs in old age.



DOI: 10.1002/gps.5089 
PMID: 30821399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257.Internet-Delivered Cognitive Behavior Therapy for Young Taiwanese Female Nursing 
Students with Irritable Bowel Syndrome-A Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial.

Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) is prevalent within the general population.
Studies have shown that stress and anxiety co-exist with IBS. Young Taiwanese
women commonly exhibit physical and psychological health problems caused by
academic stress. The purpose of our current study was to evaluate the efficacy of
short-term Internet-delivered cognitive-behavioral therapy (ICBT) on female
nursing students in practicum. We performed a cluster randomized controlled trial
comprised of 160 participants who met the inclusion criteria, which were divided 
into three groups: (1) ICBT, (2) expressive writing (EW), and (3) wait-list
control. Treatment interventions lasted for 6 weeks. Levels of anxiety,
depression, and IBS symptoms were assessed at four time points, baseline
assessment at T0, 2 weeks after T0 (T1), at the end of practicum (T2), and at
3-month follow-up (T3). The results showed that ICBT and EW groups exhibited a
significant, yet small, reduction in anxiety and depression at T2 and T3 compared
to the wait-list control group. The EW group exhibited significantly greater
reduction in anxiety and depression compared to the ICBT group at T2. However,
the ICBT group demonstrated greater improvements in alleviating anxiety and
depression at T3 compared to the EW group. These data indicate that ICBT and EW
groups exhibited small effects on anxiety and depression reduction at T2 and T3
compared to the wait-list control group, with no effects on IBS symptoms in young
Taiwanese female nursing students.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph16050708 
PMCID: PMC6427663
PMID: 30818837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258.Childhood theory of mind does not predict psychotic experiences and social
functioning in a general population sample of adolescents.

AIMS: Theory of Mind (ToM) is often impaired in early and chronic phases of
psychosis and it is often suggested that poor ToM is a trait vulnerability for
psychosis. The aim of this study was to examine in an adolescent sample whether
childhood ToM abilities can predict psychotic experiences over a period of six
years and whether this is mediated by social functioning. To examine whether ToM 
is a specific predictor for psychosis, symptoms of depression and anxiety were
also examined.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A baseline case-control sample (T0: age 7-8 years) with
and without auditory vocal hallucinations (AVH) in the general population was
assessed after five years (T1: age 12-13 years) on ToM ability (ToM Storybook
Frank), and after eleven years (T2: age 18-19 years) on psychotic experiences
(Community Assessment of Psychic Experiences; CAPE), depressive and anxiety
symptoms (Depression Anxiety and Stress Scale; DASS-21), and social functioning
(Groningen Questionnaire on Social Behaviour; GSVG-45). Analyses were conducted
on a subsample of 157 adolescents aged 18-19 years (T2) who had data available on
ToM ability at T1.
RESULTS: ToM at T1 was not predictive of psychotic experiences after six years
(from age 12-13 to age 18-19) and social functioning was also not a mediator. ToM
was not associated with psychopathology in general (depressive and anxiety
symptoms) over six years (from age 12-13 to age 18-19).
CONCLUSIONS: The current study found no evidence for a longitudinal association
between ToM ability and psychotic experiences, social functioning, and symptoms
of depression and anxiety, in adolescence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213165 
PMCID: PMC6394971
PMID: 30818390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

259. Impairment in planning tasks of children and adolescents with anxiety disorders.

Anxiety disorders are associated with poor neuropsychological performance in
attention and memory. However, little is known about the impact of these
difficulties on other cognitive functions, such as planning. The ability to plan,
including attention, working memory and set-shifting components, can be assessed 
by the Tower of Hanoi task (ToH). This study evaluated seventy-one participants, 
aged from 7-17 years. Thirty-seven subjects met DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for at
least one anxiety disorder and 34 individuals comprised the controls. The
neuropsychological tests used were: the ToH, a problem-solving task, involves
planning ability and other executive functions (working memory, attentional
control and cognitive flexibility); for the assessment of processing speed and
problem-solving, the Vocabulary/Matrix Reasoning subtests of the Wechsler
Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence was used to measure for estimated-IQ in both
groups. The groups were compared with a generalized linear model controlling for 
age, IQ and ADHD comorbidity. Compared with controls, anxiety disorders subjects 
made more errors and required more time to complete the ToH. Children and
adolescents with anxiety disorders have poorer planning ability compared to
subjects without anxiety disorders, and the difficulty in planning is affected by
interference from other cognitive functions, such as attention, working memory,
cognitive flexibility and problems-solutions.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2019.02.049 
PMID: 30818146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260.Substance Use and Psychiatric Disorders Among Mexican Americans and Non-Hispanic 
Whites by Immigration Status.

Objective: To compare prevalence rates of alcohol, nicotine, and other drug use
and major psychiatric disorders (major depressive disorder, persistent
depression, bipolar I disorder, agoraphobia, social and specific phobias, and
antisocial, schizotypal, and borderline personality disorders) between US-born
and foreign-born Mexican Americans and non-Hispanic whites and between early
entry versus later-entry foreign-born Mexican Americans and non-Hispanic whites.
Methods: Data were derived from face-to-face interviews in the 2012-2013 National
Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions-III (N = 36,309).
Results: US-born Mexican Americans and US-born non-Hispanic whites were at
greater risk (P < .05) of alcohol, nicotine, and any drug use and their
associated disorders and other DSM-5 psychiatric disorders relative to their
foreign-born counterparts. US-born non-Hispanic whites were more likely (P < .05)
to use substances and develop many psychiatric disorders relative to US-born
Mexican Americans. Foreign-born Mexican Americans < 18 years old at immigration
were at greater risk of drug use, drug use disorders, and nicotine use disorder
compared with foreign-born Mexican Americans ≥ 18 years old at immigration.
Foreign-born non-Hispanic whites < 18 years old at immigration were more likely
to use substances and to develop many psychiatric disorders relative to
foreign-born non-Hispanic whites ≥ 18 years old at immigration.
Conclusions: Taken together, the findings of this study support the healthy
immigrant hypothesis and adverse role of acculturation for US-born and
foreign-born Mexican Americans and non-Hispanic whites. Further research is
warranted on immigration status and age at arrival into the United States and
those processes underlying differential exposure to substances and development of
psychiatric conditions. An understanding of these processes can be invaluable to 
clinicians in guiding culturally sensitive and informed prevention and
intervention efforts.



DOI: 10.4088/PCC.18m02359 
PMID: 30817862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Transgenerational improvements following child anxiety treatment: An exploratory 
examination.

BACKGROUND: The present study conducted secondary analyses of a randomized
controlled trial to examine the transgenerational relationship between
cognitive-behavioral therapy for child Separation Anxiety Disorder (SepAD) and
the mental health of parents. Symptoms of anxiety and depression were compared
before and after child treatment between parents of children treated for SepAD
and parents of healthy children, who did not receive any treatment.
METHODS: One hundred and seven children aged 4-14 years with SepAD received one
of two cognitive behavioral treatment programs for SepAD (TAFF;
TrennungsAngstprogramm Für Familien; English: Separation Anxiety Family Therapy
or CC; Coping Cat). Their parents (N = 189; 101 mothers and 88 fathers) were
assessed at baseline and post-treatment for symptoms of separation anxiety,
general anxiety, and depression. A comparison group of parents (N = 74; 42
mothers and 32 fathers) of 45 children without SepAD, who did not receive any
treatment, were also assessed.
RESULTS: Results indicated a significant interaction effect between group and
time on mothers' depression and separation anxiety, indicating that maternal
symptoms of depression and separation anxiety improved in the child treatment
condition in comparison to mothers of healthy children. There was no significant 
improvement in parental pathology levels among fathers of children treated for
SepAD.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment for child SepAD may have subsequent positive effects on
mothers' own levels of separation anxiety and depression, though the mechanisms
are yet unknown. Future studies are needed that test the transgenerational effect
of child SepAD treatment on parental mental health as the primary research
question.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0212667 
PMCID: PMC6394948
PMID: 30817752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262.Starting off on the right foot in acceptance and commitment therapy.

This article describes the initial phase of acceptance and commitment therapy
(ACT). The article begins with a review of ACT's theoretical orientation. Basic
empirical support for ACT and its model are covered. A case description follows
that highlights the initial phases of ACT. The article concludes with practical
recommendations for starting therapy using ACT. (PsycINFO Database Record (c)
2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/pst0000209 
PMID: 30816758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263.Prevalence of anxiety, depression, and posttraumatic stress disorder in parents
of children with cancer: A meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: For parents, a diagnosis of cancer in their child is a traumatic
experience. However, there is conflicting evidence about the risk of developing
mental illness among parents following diagnosis. Our objective was to conduct a 
meta-analysis to determine the prevalence of mental illness in parents of
children with cancer.
METHODS: Four databases were searched to identify articles describing the
prevalence of anxiety, depression, or posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in
parents of pediatric cancer patients. Two reviewers independently screened and
extracted data. Subgroup analyses by gender and phase of cancer experience were
selected a priori. Studies were reviewed in accordance with PRISMA guidelines.
RESULTS: Of 11 394 articles identified, 58 met inclusion criteria. Reported
prevalence was highly heterogeneous, ranging from 5% to 65% for anxiety (pooled
prevalence 21% [95% CI, 13%-35%]), 7% to 91% for depression (pooled prevalence
28% [95% CI, 23%-35%]), and 4% to 75% for PTSD (pooled prevalence 26% [95% CI,
22%-32%]). Prevalence was consistently higher than noncancer parental controls.
Heterogeneity was not explained by parental gender or child's cancer phase and
was instead likely due to significant methodological differences in measurement
tools and defined thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS: Parents of children with cancer have a higher prevalence of anxiety,
depression, and PTSD compared with population controls. Yet, the reported
prevalence of mental illness was highly variable, hampering any conclusive
findings on absolute prevalence. To better understand the risk of long-term
mental illness in this population and target interventions, future studies must
adhere to standardized reporting and methods.



DOI: 10.1002/pbc.27677 
PMID: 30816008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Associations of depression and anxiety symptoms with sexual behaviour in women
and heterosexual men attending sexual health clinics: a cross-sectional study.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the association of symptoms of depression and anxiety with
sexual risk behaviour and history, among women and heterosexual men attending
genitourinary medicine (GUM) clinics.
METHODS: Attitudes to and Understanding of Risk of Acquisition of HIV (AURAH) was
a cross-sectional, self-administered questionnaire study recruited from 20 GUM
clinics in England, 2013-2014. This analysis included women and heterosexual men.
The prevalence of depression and anxiety symptoms was assessed. Modified Poisson 
regression was used to produce adjusted prevalence ratios (aPR) for the
association of t demographic, socioeconomic and lifestyle factors with depression
and anxiety, adjusted for gender, age, ethnicity, education level and study
region. Among individuals reporting sex in the past 3 months, associations of
depression and anxiety with sexual risk behaviour and history were assessed
separately by gender, adjusted for age, ethnicity, study region, education and
relationship status.
RESULTS: Questionnaires were completed by 676 women and 470 heterosexual men.
Depression symptoms were reported by 100 (14.8%) women and 33 men (7.0%). Anxiety
symptoms were reported by 79 women (11.7%) and 21 men (4.5%). Among women
reporting recent sex, those with depression symptoms were more likely to report
condomless sex with a non-regular partner, aPR 1.38 (1.07-1.77) and recent
condomless sex with two or more partners, 1.80 (1.25-2.59). Women with anxiety
symptoms more likely to report recent condomless sex with two or more partners,
1.68 (1.13-2.50), low self-efficacy for condom use, 1.54 (1.02-2.31) and STI
diagnosis in the last year 1.51 (1.04-2.20). Among heterosexual men reporting
recent sex, depression and anxiety symptoms were associated with low
self-efficacy with condom use, 2.32 (1.29-4.19) for depression and 2.23
(1.26-3.94) for anxiety, but not with measures of condomless sex.
DISCUSSION: The associations between psychological symptoms and sexual risk
behaviours highlight the importance of holistic assessment of need by both
general and sexual health clinicians. We highlight the challenge in delivering
holistic care associated with fragmentation of sexual health services.

DOI: 10.1136/sextrans-2018-053689 
PMCID: PMC6585278
PMID: 30814165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265.Neuropsychiatric Safety and Efficacy of Varenicline, Bupropion, and Nicotine
Patch in Smokers With Psychotic, Anxiety, and Mood Disorders in the EAGLES Trial.

BACKGROUND: Neuropsychiatric safety and relative efficacy of varenicline,
bupropion, and transdermal nicotine patch (NRT) in those with psychiatric
disorders are of interest.
METHODS: We performed secondary analyses of safety and efficacy outcomes by
psychiatric diagnosis in EAGLES (Evaluating Adverse Events in a Global Smoking
Cessation Study), a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, triple-dummy, placebo- and
active (NRT)-controlled trial of varenicline and bupropion with 12-week
follow-up, in a subset population, n = 4092, with a primary psychotic (n = 390), 
anxiety (n = 792), or mood (n = 2910) disorder. Primary end-point parameters were
incidence of prespecified moderate and severe neuropsychiatric adverse events
(NPSAEs) and weeks 9 to 12 continuous abstinence rates (9-12CAR).
RESULTS: The observed NPSAE incidence across treatments was 5.1% to 6.3% in those
with a psychotic disorder, 4.6% to 8.0% in those with an anxiety disorder, and
4.6% to 6.8% in those with a mood disorder. Neither varenicline nor bupropion was
associated with significantly increased NPSAEs relative to NRT or placebo in the 
psychiatric cohort or any psychiatric diagnostic subcohort. There was a
significant effect of treatment on 9-12CAR (P < 0.0001) and no significant
treatment-by-diagnostic subcohort interaction (P = 0.24). Abstinence rates with
varenicline were superior to bupropion, NRT, and placebo, and abstinence with
bupropion and NRT was superior to placebo. Within-diagnostic subcohort
comparisons of treatment efficacy yielded estimated odds ratios for 9-12CAR
versus placebo of greater than 3.00 for varenicline, greater than 1.90 for
bupropion, and greater than 1.80 for NRT for all diagnostic groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Varenicline, bupropion, and nicotine patch are well tolerated and
effective in adults with psychotic, anxiety, and mood disorders. The relative
effectiveness of varenicline, bupropion, and NRT versus placebo did not vary
across psychiatric diagnoses.

DOI: 10.1097/JCP.0000000000001015 
PMCID: PMC6488024 [Available on 2020-03-01]
PMID: 30811371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266.Basolateral amygdala input to the medial prefrontal cortex controls
obsessive-compulsive disorder-like checking behavior.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) affects ∼1 to 3% of the world's population.
However, the neural mechanisms underlying the excessive checking symptoms in OCD 
are not fully understood. Using viral neuronal tracing in mice, we found that
glutamatergic neurons from the basolateral amygdala (BLAGlu) project onto both
medial prefrontal cortex glutamate (mPFCGlu) and GABA (mPFCGABA) neurons that
locally innervate mPFCGlu neurons. Next, we developed an OCD checking mouse model
with quinpirole-induced repetitive checking behaviors. This model demonstrated
decreased glutamatergic mPFC microcircuit activity regulated by enhanced BLAGlu
inputs. Optical or chemogenetic manipulations of this maladaptive circuitry
restored the behavioral response. These findings were verified in a mouse
functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, in which the BLA-mPFC
functional connectivity was increased in OCD mice. Together, these findings
define a unique BLAGlu→mPFCGABA→Glu circuit that controls the checking symptoms
of OCD.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1814292116 
PMCID: PMC6397577
PMID: 30808765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267.Efficacy of pre-supplementary motor area transcranial direct current stimulation 
for treatment resistant obsessive compulsive disorder: A randomized, double
blinded, sham controlled trial.

BACKGROUND: A significant proportion of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD)
patients do not respond to specific serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). There 
is a need to evaluate novel treatment options for OCD.
OBJECTIVE: In this double blinded, randomized, sham controlled study, we
investigated the efficacy of add-on transcranial direct current stimulation
(tDCS) in reducing the symptoms in SSRI-resistant OCD patients by employing
anodal pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA) stimulation.
METHOD: Twenty-five patients with DSM-IV OCD having persistent symptoms despite
adequate and stable treatment with at least one SSRI were randomly allocated to
receive 20 min of verum (active) 2-mA tDCS or sham stimulation twice daily on 5
consecutive days [anode over Pre-SMA; cathode over right supra-orbital area].
Response to treatment was defined as at least 35% reduction in the Yale-Brown
Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (YBOCS) total score along with a Clinical Global
Impression - Improvement (CGI-I) score of 1 (very much improved) or 2 (much
improved).
RESULTS: The response rate was significantly greater in the verum tDCS(4 out of
12) compared to sham-tDCS (0 out of 13) [Fisher's exact test, p = 0.04]. Repeated
measures analysis of variance with tDCS type (verum vs. sham) as between subjects
factor showed that there was a significant tDCS-type X time-point interaction
with significantly greater reduction of YBOCS total score [F
(1,22) = 4.95,p = 0.04,partial-η2 = 0.18] in verum-tDCS group.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this RCT suggest that tDCS may be effective in
treating SSRI-resistant OCD. Future studies should examine the efficacy in larger
samples of OCD and explore other potential target regions using randomized
sham-controlled designs, in addition to examining the sustainability of the
beneficial effects.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trials Registry India
(http://ctri.nic.in/Clinicaltrials/login.php): Registration Number-
CTRI/2016/04/006837).



DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2019.02.005 
PMID: 30808612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268.Depression and anxiety symptoms in cardiac patients: a cross-sectional
hospital-based study in a Palestinian population.

BACKGROUND: Mental health problems have an adverse effect on the course of
cardiac disease. The integration of their diagnosis and treatment into cardiology
care is generally poor. It is particularly challenging in cultural environments
where mental health problems are stigmatized. The objective of the current study 
was to investigate the proportion of cardiac patients with depression and anxiety
as well as factors associated with the presence of these symptoms in a
Palestinian population.
METHODS: This cross-sectional hospital-based study was conducted on patients
consecutively admitted with a new or existing cardiac diagnosis to one of the
four main hospitals in Nablus, Palestine over an eight-month period. Data was
obtained from hospital medical charts and an in-person interview, using a
structured questionnaire with a sequence of validated instruments. All subjects
were screened for depression and anxiety using the Cardiac Depression Scale (CDS)
and the Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS-42). Multivariate ordered logistic 
regression analyses were performed to identify factors among four categories
(socio-demographic, clinical, psychosocial, lifestyle) independently associated
with depression and anxiety.
RESULTS: In total, 1053 patients with a confirmed cardiac diagnosis were included
in the study with a participation rate of 96%. Based on the CDS and DASS-42, 54% 
met the criteria for severe depression (CDS > 100) and 19.2% for severe-to-very
severe anxiety (DASS-anxiety > 15), respectively. Symptoms of depression and
anxiety were more prevalent among females and less educated patients. Factors
independently associated with both depressive and anxiety symptoms were
post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms, low level of self-esteem, high somatic
symptoms, low physical and mental health component scores, active smoking,
physical inactivity, and longer disease duration. Patients with depressive and
anxiety symptoms also reported poor social support and lower resilience.
CONCLUSION: There was a high level of depression and anxiety in this sample of
cardiac patients. The results point to characteristics of patients in particular 
need for mental health screening and suggest possible targets for intervention
such as strengthening of social support and of physical activity. The integration
of mental health services into cardiac rehabilitation in Palestine and comparable
cultural settings is warranted from the time of first diagnosis and onward.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-019-6561-3 
PMCID: PMC6390372
PMID: 30808333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269.Anxiety Disorders in Older Patients.

Anxiety complaints are common among older people. Specific phobia is
characterized by exaggerated fear to a specific object or situation. Fear of
falling is one example and occurs in about 50% of older persons who have fallen
recently. Polypharmacy heightens fall risks. Generalized anxiety disorder is
characterized by chronic uncontrollable worry that interferes with functioning
and is accompanied by restlessness and disturbed sleep. Panic disorder refers to 
recurrent, unexpected surges of intense fear that evidence physical and cognitive
dysfunction. Cognitive behavior therapy has efficacy among psychotherapies for
older anxious adults. In treating anxiety, medications that might be anxiogenic
are reduced in dosage or discontinued. It is essential to monitor for suicidal
ideation and symptom change. The first-selected pharmacotherapy for people with
most anxiety disorders is selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or
serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. The risk-benefit ratio of
benzodiazepine pharmacotherapy in elderly patients is not favorable.



DOI: 10.4088/PCC.18nr02335 
PMID: 30806999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270.Reduced focal fiber collinearity in the cingulum bundle in adults with
obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a disabling condition, often associated
with a chronic course. Given its role in attentional control, decision-making,
and emotional regulation, the anterior cingulate cortex is considered to have a
key role in the pathophysiology of the disorder. Notably, the cingulum bundle,
being the major white matter tract connecting to this region, has been
historically a target for the surgical treatment of intractable OCD. In this
study, we aimed to identify the extent to which focal-more than
diffuse-abnormalities in fiber collinearity of the cingulum bundle could
distinguish 48 adults with OCD (mean age [SD] = 23.3 [4.5] years; F/M = 30/18)
from 45 age- and sex-matched healthy control adults (CONT; mean age [SD] = 23.2
[3.8] years; F/M = 28/17) and further examine if these abnormalities correlated
with symptom severity. Use of tract-profiles rather than a conventional diffusion
imaging approach allowed us to characterize white matter microstructural
properties along (100 segments), as opposed to averaging these measures across,
the entire tract. To account for these 100 different segments of the cingulum
bundle, a repeated measures analysis of variance revealed a main effect of group 
(OCD < CONT; F[1,87] = 5.3; P = 0.024) upon fractional anisotropy (FA, a measure 
of fiber collinearity and/or white matter integrity), in the cingulum bundle,
bilaterally. Further analyses revealed that these abnormalities were focal
(middle portion) within the left and right cingulum bundle, although did not
correlate with symptom severity in OCD. Findings indicate that focal
abnormalities in connectivity between the anterior cingulate cortex and other
prefrontal cortical regions may represent neural mechanisms of OCD.

DOI: 10.1038/s41386-019-0353-4 
PMCID: PMC6784994
PMID: 30802896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271.Trajectories of depression and anxiety symptom change during psychological
therapy.

BACKGROUND: Forty-percent of the variance in psychological treatment outcomes is 
estimated to be explained by symptom change by the third treatment session.
However, change may not be uniform across patient groups and symptom domains.
This study aimed to identify subgroups of patients with different trajectories of
depression and anxiety symptom change during psychological therapy and identify
baseline patient characteristics associated with these trajectories.
METHODS: 4394 patients attending two psychological treatment services completed
sessional, self-report depression and anxiety measures. Trajectories of symptom
change were investigated using latent class growth analysis. Multinomial logistic
regression was used to explore associations between baseline patient
characteristics and trajectory classes.
RESULTS: A number of distinct trajectories were identified. Anxiety symptom
trajectories could be distinguished by the third treatment session, but for
depression symptoms there was a class displaying limited change until session six
followed by rapid improvement in symptoms thereafter. Compared to the
non-responding trajectories, depression and anxiety trajectories indicating
treatment response were associated with lower baseline severity, better social
functioning and lower incidence of phobic anxiety, but not with medication
prescription status.
LIMITATIONS: Data came from two services, so wider generalisability is unknown.
Predictors were limited to data routinely collected in the services; unmeasured
factors may have improved the prediction of trajectories.
CONCLUSIONS: Baseline characteristics and symptom change early in therapy can
help identify different trajectories of symptom change. This knowledge could aid 
clinical decision making and help improve treatment outcomes. By ignoring
distinct trajectories, clinicians may incorrectly consider patients as
"not-on-track" and unnecessarily change or end therapy that would otherwise
benefit patients.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.02.043 
PMCID: PMC6428692
PMID: 30802698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272.Intraocular Pressure as an Indicator of the Level of Induced Anxiety in
Basketball.

SIGNIFICANCE: Our data demonstrate that intraocular pressure (IOP) is sensitive
to anxiety manipulation in sport scenarios, specifically in a basketball free
throw task. The present outcomes may be of special relevance because of its
practical advantages for the objective control of athletes' anxiety levels.
PURPOSE: Athletes experience high levels of anxiety during sport competition, and
IOP has demonstrated to reflect autonomous nervous system changes during mentally
demanding situations. We tested whether different levels of induced anxiety
during basketball free throw shooting alter IOP.
METHODS: We followed a repeated-measures design to test the effects of
anxiety-induced manipulation during basketball free throw shooting on IOP,
shooting performance, and perceived anxiety. Eighteen amateur basketball players 
performed three experimental sessions consisting of 100 free throws each.
However, we gave three different instructions to participants regarding the score
assigned to each free throw, allowing us to manipulate the level of induced
anxiety (low, medium, and high).
RESULTS: Confirming a successful anxiety manipulation, basketball players
reported more perceived anxiety with higher levels of induced anxiety (P < .001, 
η = 0.37). Our data show that higher levels of induced anxiety provoke an acute
IOP rise (P < .001, η = 0.44), with the low-, medium-, and high-anxiety-induced
conditions promoting an average IOP rise of 0.21, 1.63, and 18.46%, respectively.
Also, there was a linear IOP rise over time in the high-anxiety-induced condition
(r = 0.82). Nevertheless, we found no effect of anxiety-induced manipulation on
basketball free throw performance (P = .93).
CONCLUSIONS: Intraocular pressure is sensitive to anxiety-induced manipulation
during basketball free throw shooting, showing an increase in parallel with
accumulated anxiety. Based on these findings, IOP may be considered a promising
tool for the assessment of the level of anxiety in certain sport situations.
Future studies are required to explore the generalizability of these results in
other scenarios with different physical and mental demands.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000001350 
PMID: 30801503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273.Response time as a proxy of ongoing mental state: A combined fMRI and
pupillometry study in Generalized Anxiety Disorder.

In Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD), fluctuations in ongoing thoughts (i.e.,
mind-wandering) often take the form of rigid and intrusive perseverative
cognition, such as worry. Here, we sought to characterise the neural correlates
of mind-wandering and perseverative cognition, alongside autonomic nervous system
indices of central arousal, notably pupil dilation. We implemented a protocol
incorporating the dynamic delivery of thought-probes within a functional
neuroimaging task. Sixteen individuals with GAD and sixteen matched healthy
controls (HC) underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging with concomitant
pupillometry. Participants performed a series of low-demand tracking tasks,
responding to occasional changes in a target stimulus. Such a task is typically
accompanied by self-generated, off-task thinking. Thought-probes were triggered
based on an individual's response time (RT) when responding to the change in the 
target. Subjective reports showed that long RT predicted off-task
thinking/mind-wandering. Moreover, long RT and mind-wandering were also
associated with larger pupil diameter. This effect was exaggerated in GAD
patients during perseverative cognition. Within brain, during both pre-target
periods and target events, there were distinct neural correlates for
mind-wandering (e.g., anterior cingulate and paracingulate activation at target
onset) and perseverative cognition (e.g., opposite patterns of activation in
posterior cingulate and cerebellum at target onset in HC and GAD). Results
suggest that not only attention systems but also sensory-motor cortices are
important during off-task states. Interestingly, changes across the 'default mode
network' also tracked fluctuations in pupillary size. Autonomic expression in
pupillary changes mirrors brain activation patterns that occur during different
forms of repetitive thinking.



DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.02.038 
PMID: 30798009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Nucleus Accumbens Deep Brain Stimulation for Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder and
Aggression in an Autistic Patient: A Case Report and Hypothesis of the Role of
Nucleus Accumbens in Autism and Comorbid Symptoms.

BACKGROUND: Autism spectrum disorder represents a set of developmental disorders 
characterized by lack of social interaction and verbal and nonverbal
communication in the first 3 years of life. It is also associated with several
comorbidities, including epilepsy, aggression, self-mutilating behavior, and
obsessive-compulsive behavior. In some cases, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
develops. The nucleus accumbens (NAc) plays a key role in reward circuitry and is
involved in the control of OCD and aggression.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 42-year-old woman with autism was offered NAc deep brain
stimulation for her comorbidities of OCD and aggression. The NAc was targeted
using standard stereotactic methods, and postoperative scans confirmed the
position of the active electrode to be within the NAc. The patient experienced
significant symptom relief. At 1-year follow-up, the Yale-Brown Obsessive
Compulsive Scale score for OCD, excluding items 1-5 of the scale, improved from
19 to 5. Hamilton Depression Scale and Hamilton Anxiety Scale scores similarly
improved from 20 to 15 and from 30 to 18, respectively. Social Communication
Questionnaire Current version for autism score improved from 26 to 16. Subscores 
for reciprocal social interactionimproved from 13 to 8; for communication
improved from 5 to 4; and for restricted, repetitive, and stereotyped patterns of
behavior improved from 6 to 3.
CONCLUSIONS: This case report illustrated the role of the NAc in OCD and
aggression in an autistic patient. We discussed the role of the NAc as a target
to explain the outcome of this case.


DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2019.02.021 
PMID: 30797934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Cognitive predictors of treatment outcome for exposure therapy: do changes in
self-efficacy, self-focused attention, and estimated social costs predict symptom
improvement in social anxiety disorder?

BACKGROUND: Cognitions play an important role in the development and maintenance 
of social anxiety disorder (SAD).
METHODS: To investigate whether changes in cognitions during the first six
sessions of exposure therapy are associated with treatment outcome, we assessed
reported self-focused attention, self-efficacy in social situations, and
estimated social costs in 60 participants (Mage = 36.9 years) diagnosed with SAD 
who received in vivo or virtual reality exposure therapy.
RESULTS: Patients demonstrating a greater decrease in estimated social costs
during treatment reported greater improvement of their social anxiety symptoms
following both forms of exposure therapy. While changes in self-focused attention
and social self-efficacy during treatment were significantly associated with
treatment outcome when examined individually, these changes did not significantly
predict symptom improvement beyond social costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Changes in estimated social costs during treatment are associated
with improvement of social anxiety symptoms after exposure therapy. Future
research needs to further investigate estimated social costs as a predictor in
relation to other cognitive variables.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT01746667 ; www.clinicaltrials.gov, November 2012,
retrospectively registered.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-019-2054-2 
PMCID: PMC6387557
PMID: 30795749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276.Pharmacokinetics of serotonergic drugs: focus on OCD.

INTRODUCTION: Although the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), a
common, chronic, and disabling psychiatric condition, has significantly improved 
in the last decades, with the demonstration of the specific effectiveness of
serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs), a large proportion of patients still show
high relapse rates. In addition, pharmacological treatments should be maintained 
for years, so that the clinicians should take into account the pharmacokinetic
changes in the long-term, which may be responsible for dangerous side effects or 
interactions. Areas covered: The aim of this paper was to review the literature
on the pharmacokinetics of SSRIs and clomipramine, and on their pharmacokinetic
parameters in OCD patients. Expert opinion: Although the literature on the
pharmacokinetics of both clomipramine and SSRIs is consistent, data on
pharmacokinetic parameters in OCD patients are very few. Given the impact of OCD,
its chronicity requiring long-term treatments, together with the need to increase
the clinical response rate, more studies in this field are urgently required.

DOI: 10.1080/17425255.2019.1584611 
PMID: 30793987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277.Health Innovation in Patty Products. The Role of Food Neophobia in Consumers'
Non-Hypothetical Willingness to Pay, Purchase Intention and Hedonic Evaluation.

Consumers' personality traits are key factors in understanding consumers' choice 
and acceptance for health innovations in food products, in particular, food
neophobia (FN). The patty product as a traditional pork product (TPP) with two
innovative traditional pork products (ITPP) from the untapped pig breed (Porc
Negre Mallorquí) in Spain were analysed. Patties were enriched with Porcini
(Boletus edulis) using the claim "enriched with a natural source of dietary fiber
Beta glucans that may contribute to improve our defence system" (ITPP1) and
enriched with blueberries (Vaccinium corymbosum) using the claim "enriched with a
natural source of antioxidant that may help to prevent cardiovascular diseases"
(ITPP2). Two non-hypothetical discrete choice experiments were applied to
investigate the importance of FN in consumers' purchase intention (PI) and
willingness to pay (WTP) before and after tasting the products. Results showed
that the TPP and the ITPP2 received higher than expected PI and WTP. However,
after tasting the products, consumers exhibited lower WTP for all ITPP showing
the prevalence of the sensory experience on health innovation. The FN was highly 
related to WTP before the hedonic evaluation. However, it turned out to be
non-significant, showing a homogenising role of the sensory experience in
reducing the FN impact.

DOI: 10.3390/nu11020444 
PMCID: PMC6412754
PMID: 30791660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278.Self-reported asthma diagnosis and mental health: Findings from the Collaborative
Psychiatric Epidemiology Surveys.

Historically, asthma has had a mixed association with mental health. More
research is needed to examine the associations between asthma and specific
psychiatric disorders, and whether these associations hold true across racial
groups in the general population of the United States. Using the Collaborative
Psychiatric Epidemiology Surveys, we examined the associations between lifetime
asthma and specific DSM-IV psychiatric disorders, adjusting for sociodemographic 
characteristics and smoking status. We found that when looking at the entire
sample, self-reported diagnosis of asthma was associated with greater odds of
reporting mood disorders (AOR: 1.36; 95% CI: 1.05-1.74). Asthma was not
significantly associated with total anxiety disorders (AOR 1.25; 95% CI:
0.98-1.60), though it was specifically associated with generalized anxiety
disorder. Asthma was associated with greater odds of having alcohol use disorders
(AOR: 1.71; 95% CI: 1.24-2.37), but was not associated with total eating
disorders (AOR:1.36; 95% CI: 1.17-2.51) (though it was significantly associated
with higher odds for binge eating disorder, but lower odds of reporting bulimia).
The strength and the significance of the associations between asthma and
psychiatric disorders varied when stratified by race, underscoring the importance
of examining race as a potential explanation for the mixed findings observed
previously in the literature.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.046 
PMID: 30791347  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279.A Review of Epigenetics of PTSD in Comorbid Psychiatric Conditions.

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an acquired psychiatric disorder with
functionally impairing physiological and psychological symptoms following a
traumatic exposure. Genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors act together
to determine both an individual's susceptibility to PTSD and its clinical
phenotype. In this literature review, we briefly review the candidate genes that 
have been implicated in the development and severity of the PTSD phenotype. We
discuss the importance of the epigenetic regulation of these candidate genes. We 
review the general epigenetic mechanisms that are currently understood, with
examples of each in the PTSD phenotype. Our focus then turns to studies that have
examined PTSD in the context of comorbid psychiatric disorders or associated
social and behavioral stressors. We examine the epigenetic variation in cases or 
models of PTSD with comorbid depressive disorders, anxiety disorders, psychotic
disorders, and substance use disorders. We reviewed the literature that has
explored epigenetic regulation in PTSD in adverse childhood experiences and
suicide phenotypes. Finally, we review some of the information available from
studies of the transgenerational transmission of epigenetic variation in maternal
cases of PTSD. We discuss areas pertinent for future study to further elucidate
the complex interactions between epigenetic modifications and this complex
psychiatric disorder.

DOI: 10.3390/genes10020140 
PMCID: PMC6410143
PMID: 30781888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. The molecular neurobiology of chronic pain-induced depression.

The increasing number of individuals with comorbidities poses an urgent need to
improve the management of patients with multiple co-existing diseases. Among
these comorbidities, chronic pain and mood disorders, two long-lasting disabling 
conditions that significantly reduce the quality of life, could be cited first.
The recent development of animal models accelerated the studies focusing on the
underlying mechanisms of the chronic pain and depression/anxiety comorbidity.
This review provides an overview of clinical and pre-clinical studies performed
over the past two decades addressing the molecular aspects of the comorbid
relationship of chronic pain and depression. We thus focused on the studies that 
investigated the molecular characteristics of the comorbid relationship between
chronic pain and mood disorders, especially major depressive disorders, from the 
genetic and epigenetic point of view to key neuromodulators which have been shown
to play an important role in this comorbidity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-019-03003-z 
PMID: 30778732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Depression is associated with diabetes status of family members: NHANES
(1999-2016).

BACKGROUND: The majority of the studies in this area focus on the psychological
impact of having diabetic children or adolescents on parents, while a limited
number of studies have investigated the effect of diabetes on the mental health
status of family members in the general population. Thus, the aim of the current 
study is to explore the possible association between mental health disorders
(depression, anxiety and panic) and diabetes status of family members among a
national sample of adults in the United States.
METHODS: Our analysis included 1,787 and 25,574 participants in the National
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 1999-2004 and 2005-2016,
respectively. Diabetes status of family members was self-reported by the
participants, and depression was assessed using the Composite International
Diagnostic Interview (CIDI) and the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) in
NHANES (1999-2004) and NHANES (2005-2016), respectively.
RESULTS: With NHANES (1999-2004) participants, logistic regression indicated a
marginally significant association between depression and diabetes status of
family members after multivariable adjustment (P = 0.07), and trend analysis
suggested that participants who had more diabetic family members were at a higher
risk of depression (Ptrend < 0.01). We further validated these results using data
from NHANES (2005-2016), which indicated diabetes status of family members was
associated with both clinically relevant depression (PHQ-9 ≥ 10) and clinically
significant depression (PHQ-9 ≥ 15) (P < 0.01).
LIMITATIONS: The information about the mental health status of family members and
the exact role of participants in caring for diabetic patients was inadequate.
CONCLUSIONS: A positive association between depression and diabetes status of
family members was observed in the general population, suggesting that
psychological interventions targeting the family members of diabetic patients are
worthy of attention.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.02.019 
PMID: 30771642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Neurocognitive assessment in obsessive compulsive disorder patients: Adherence to
behavioral decision models.

In economics, models of decision-making under risk are widely investigated. Since
many empirical studies have shown patterns in choice behavior that classical
models fail to predict, several descriptive theories have been developed. Due to 
an evident phenotypic heterogeneity, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) patients
have shown a general deficit in decision making when compared to healthy control 
subjects (HCs). However, the direction for impairment in decision-making in OCD
patients is still unclear. Hence, bridging decision-making models widely used in 
the economic literature with mental health research may improve the understanding
of preference relations in severe patients, and may enhance intervention designs.
We investigate the behavior of OCD patients with respect to HCs by means of
decision making economic models within a typical neuropsychological setting, such
as the Cambridge Gambling Task. In this task subjects have to decide the amount
of their initial wealth to invest in each risky decision. To account for
heterogenous preferences, we have analyzed the micro-level data for a more
informative analysis of the choices made by the subjects. We consider two
influential models in economics: the expected value (EV), which assumes risk
neutrality, and a multiple reference points model, an alternative formulation of 
Disappointment theory. We find evidence that (medicated) OCD patients are more
consistent with EV than HCs. The former appear to be more risk neutral, namely,
less sensitive to risk than HCs. They also seem to base their decisions on
disappointment avoidance less than HCs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211856 
PMCID: PMC6377126
PMID: 30768599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. A Randomised Controlled Feasibility Trial of Immersive Virtual Reality Treatment 
with Cognitive Behaviour Therapy for Specific Phobias in Young People with Autism
Spectrum Disorder.

We examined the feasibility and acceptability of using an immersive virtual
reality environment (VRE) alongside cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) for young
people with autism experiencing specific phobia. Thirty-two participants were
randomised to treatment or control. Treatment involved one session introducing
CBT techniques and four VRE sessions, delivered by local clinical therapists.
Change in target behaviour was independently rated. Two weeks after treatment,
four treatment participants (25%) and no control participants were responders; at
6 months after treatment, six (38%) treatment and no control participants were
responders. At 6 months post-treatment, symptoms had worsened for one treatment
and five control (untreated) participants. Brief VRE exposure with CBT is
feasible and acceptable to deliver through child clinical services and is
effective for some participants.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-018-3861-x 
PMCID: PMC6484088
PMID: 30767156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284.Subcortical electrophysiological activity is detectable with high-density EEG
source imaging.

Subcortical neuronal activity is highly relevant for mediating communication in
large-scale brain networks. While electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings
provide appropriate temporal resolution and coverage to study whole brain
dynamics, the feasibility to detect subcortical signals is a matter of debate.
Here, we investigate if scalp EEG can detect and correctly localize signals
recorded with intracranial electrodes placed in the centromedial thalamus, and in
the nucleus accumbens. Externalization of deep brain stimulation (DBS)
electrodes, placed in these regions, provides the unique opportunity to record
subcortical activity simultaneously with high-density (256 channel) scalp EEG. In
three patients during rest with eyes closed, we found significant correlation
between alpha envelopes derived from intracranial and EEG source reconstructed
signals. Highest correlation was found for source signals in close proximity to
the actual recording sites, given by the DBS electrode locations. Therefore, we
present direct evidence that scalp EEG indeed can sense subcortical signals.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-08725-w 
PMCID: PMC6376013
PMID: 30765707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Duration of untreated illness and response to SRI treatment in
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder.

BACKGROUND: The duration of untreated illness (DUI) is a potentially modifiable
parameter associated with worst prognosis in several psychiatric disorders, but
poorly investigated in Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD). Our aims were to
estimate the mean DUI in a large sample of individuals with OCD and its impact on
response to the first ever adequate SRI treatment.
METHODS: We retrospectively examined records of 251 patients with OCD (SCID-I,
DSM-IV) who referred to our Department and were prospectively and
naturalistically treated according to International Guidelines. The DUI was
defined as the interval between age at onset and age at which patients received
their first adequate pharmacological treatment. Response rates were compared in
subjects with brief (≤24 months) versus long DUI. Logistic regression models
predicting response and 12-week Y-BOCS score were run with DUI (among others) as 
independent variable.
RESULTS: The mean DUI was 106.19 ± 118.14 months, with a mean interval between
onset of the disorder and when patients sought professional help of
82.27 ± 112.30 months. Response rates were significantly reduced in subjects with
a long DUI, using both the cut-off of 24 months and the median value of 60
months. Regression analyses confirmed that a long (>24 months) DUI predicts
poorer response and higher Y-BOCS scores at 12 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results, although preliminary, seem to suggest that a longer
duration of untreated illness in OCD is associated with poorer outcome in terms
of response to SRI treatments. It is imperative to do all the possible to shorten
the DUI, both by improving access to mental health services, improving the
ability of primary care physicians and mental health professionals to recognize
OCD, and disseminate best-practice prescription guidelines.



DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2019.01.017 
PMID: 30763828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Subtypes of treatment-resistant depression determined by a latent class analysis 
in a Chinese clinical population.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to explore subtypes of treatment-resistant
depression (TRD).
METHODS: Latent class analysis (LCA) was performed on clinical and demographic
data collected from 375 patients with TRD. Clinical variables were compared
across subtypes. Treatment outcomes across subtypes of TRD were compared
separately for those within each subtype with anxiety (those with a HRSD-17
anxiety/somatization factor score ≥ 7) and those without anxiety. LCA subtypes
were compared using Cochran's and Mantel-Haenszel χ2 test, respectively.
Unordered multinomial logistic regression was used to assess clinical correlates 
of TRD subtypes.
RESULTS: Three categories were detected: severe depression (66%), moderate
depression with anxiety (9%) and mild depression with anxiety/somatization (25%).
Gender, age, age at first onset, family monthly income, number of
hospitalizations, HRSD-17 and clinical global impression-severity (CGI) scores
were significantly different across the three groups. Remission rates were
significantly different among anxious cases with severe (43.75%), moderate
(22.73%) and mild (26.25%) depression subtypes. Compared to cases in the mild
depression group, those in the severe depression group had a greater likelihood
of being male, having a later age of first onset, higher numbers of
hospitalization, higher HRSD-17 and CGI total scores, and lower family income.
Those in the moderate depression group were more likely to be male and have lower
family income than those in the mild depression group.
LIMITATIONS: Representative bias, relatively small sample size, unbalanced group 
size and incomplete indicator variables might have a negative effect on the
validity and generalization of the findings.
CONCLUSIONS: Depression severity could be a basis for subtype classification of
patients with TRD. The classification of latent class of TRD observed in our
study was similar to the structure found in MDD. Longitudinal research into the
stability of the latent structure of TRD across illness course is merited as is
research into treatment outcomes for TRD subtypes.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.02.005 
PMID: 30763799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. The predictive value of neural reward processing on exposure therapy outcome:
Results from a randomized controlled trial.

BACKGROUND: Exposure is the gold standard treatment for phobic anxiety and is
thought to represent the clinical application of extinction learning. Reward
sensitivity might however also represent a predictive factor for exposure therapy
outcome, as this therapy promotes positive experiences and involves positive
comments by the therapist. We hypothesized that high reward sensitivity, as
expressed by elevated reward expectancy and reward value, can be associated with 
better outcome to exposure therapy specifically.
METHODS: Forty-four participants with a specific phobia for spiders were included
in the current study. Participants were randomly assigned to exposure therapy
(n = 25) or progressive muscle relaxation (PMR) (n = 19). Treatment outcome was
defined as pre- versus post-therapy phobia symptoms. Before treatment, functional
brain responses and behavioral responses (i.e. reaction time and accuracy) during
reward anticipation and consumption were assessed with the Monetary Incentive
Delay task (MID). Behavioral and neural responses in regions of interest (i.e.
nucleus accumbens, ventromedial prefrontal cortex and the ventral tegmental area)
as well as across the whole-brain were subsequently regressed on treatment
outcomes.
RESULTS: Exposure therapy was more effective in reducing phobia symptoms than
PMR. Longer reaction times to reward cues and lower activation in the left
posterior cingulate cortex during reward consumption were selectively associated 
with symptoms reductions following exposure therapy but not following PMR. Only
within the exposure therapy group, greater symptom reduction was related to
increased activation in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex during reward
anticipation, and decreased activation in the medial prefrontal cortex during
reward consumption.
CONCLUSION: Results indicate that individual differences in reward sensitivity
can specifically predict exposure therapy outcome. Although activation in regions
of interest were not related to therapy outcome, regions involved in attentional 
processing of reward cues were predictive of phobic symptom change following
exposure therapy but not PMR.



DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2019.02.002 
PMID: 30763673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. High rates of depression anxiety and suicidal ideation among inpatients in
general hospital in China.

Objective: To investigate the prevalence rates of depression anxiety and suicidal
ideation among Chinese general hospital inpatients and to identify the potential 
associations with sociodemographics. Method: A cross-sectional survey was applied
in a Chinese general hospital. A questionnaire set, including sociodemographic
variables, Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), and the Generalized Anxiety
Disorder Scale-7 (GAD-7), was completed by the participants. Clinically
significant depression (CSD) and clinically significant anxiety (CSA) were
defined as a score above 10 on the two scales. CSD and CSA are proxy measures but
not specific diagnoses of mental disorders. Results: Data from 1329 patients were
included in the final analysis. 422 (31.8%) reported clinically significant
depressive symptoms, 83 (6.3%) reported frequent suicidal ideation, and 204
(15.3%) reported clinically significant anxiety. Household income was negatively 
associated with CSD. Inpatients with lower household incomes and educational
levels had higher rates of CSA. Middle-aged inpatients were more prone to
suicidal ideation, and stable marital status was related to less suicidal
ideation. Conclusion: Depression, anxiety, and suicidal ideation were determined 
to be common psychological problems in Chinese inpatients. Chinese medical
personnel must pay attention to the mental health conditions of inpatients,
particularly inpatients with lower income, educational levels, and poor marital
status. Key Points This is one of the first studies focusing on the prevalence of
depression and anxiety in Chinese hospitalized inpatients in non-psychiatric
departments of a general hospital. The PHQ-9 and GAD-7 were determined to be
potential screening tools to aid Chinese medical workers in recognizing
depression and anxiety in nonpsychiatric departments. The prevalence of
depression, anxiety and suicidal ideation was observed to be relatively high in
inpatients, which requires more attention from Chinese clinicians.

DOI: 10.1080/13651501.2018.1539179 
PMID: 30762438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Risk for depression and anxiety in long-term survivors of hematologic cancer.

OBJECTIVE: An increasing number of hematologic cancer patients outlive 10 years
past diagnosis. Nevertheless, few studies investigated psychological strain in
this patient group beyond 5 years after diagnosis. We conducted a registry-based 
investigation of risk for depression and anxiety among long-term hematologic
cancer survivors up to 26 years after diagnosis compared to the general
population.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional postal survey, cancer survivors were recruited
through 2 regional cancer registries in Germany. Depression (Patient Health
Questionnaire-9) and anxiety (Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7) were assessed.
Survivor data were compared to age- and gender-matched comparison groups (CG)
randomly drawn from large representative samples (N > 5,000).
RESULTS: Out of 2,001 eligible patients, 46% participated (n = 922). Survivors
were significantly more likely than the CG to report elevated depressive
(relative risk [RR] = 3.1; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.2-4.3) and anxious
symptomatology (RR = 1.7; 95% CI: 1.2-2.3). Depression scores remained high even 
in the survivor Group 12-26 years after diagnosis. RR for anxiety decreased to
values comparable to the CG. Younger and middle-aged survivors (≤65 years) were
at highest relative and absolute risk to be psychologically impaired.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that depression rather than anxiety is a prominent
problem in long-term survivors of hematologic cancer. The results stress the
importance of monitoring patients even years after diagnosing and supplying
psychosocial support to patients in need. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA,
all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/hea0000713 
PMID: 30762398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290.The role of the Retrospective Identification of Motivations and Inclinations in
explaining obsessive beliefs.

While psychopathological phenomena of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have
been well described some time ago, instead there is still need for a deeper
understanding of mechanisms underlying psychopathological phenomena themselves.
About this, a recently proposed concept - the 'Retrospective Identification of
Motivations and Inclinations' (RIMI) - seems to have a promising explanatory
capacity about different aspects of obsessive-compulsive disorder. For example,
as shown elsewhere, it appears to shed new light on the so-called 'fear of self' 
in OCD. In this paper, the role of RIMI in explaining OCD related 'belief
domains' (responsibility/threat, importance/control of thoughts,
perfectionism/certainty) will be discussed on the base of clinical cases.
Moreover, within this discussion, the possible contribution of RIMI to the
pathogenesis of both obsessions and compulsions will also be briefly outlined.
Finally, a hypothesis about the probable genesis of this process will be
advanced.

DOI: 10.1708/3104.30934 
PMID: 30760931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. A long-term case study with sadistically-tinged countertransference elements.

This case report sketches the psychoanalytically-informed supportive
psychotherapeutic treatment of a single man through his life challenges over a
twenty-year period. The decades-long challenges arise from obsessive compulsive
disorder, pathologic self-effacement with insatiable and unusual erotic
components, and severe visual impairment leading to blindness.
Sadistically-tinged impulses arising in the countertransference are described.

DOI: 10.1057/s11231-019-09175-5 
PMID: 30760817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Cannabidiol enhancement of exposure therapy in treatment refractory patients with
phobias: study protocol of a randomized controlled trial.

BACKGROUND: Phobic anxiety disorders are among the most prevalent psychiatric
disorders and are burdensome in terms of loss of quality of life and work
productivity. Evidence-based treatments are relatively successful in the majority
of patients, especially exposure therapy. However, a substantial subset of
patients fails to achieve or stay in remission. Preclinical and genetic research 
have yielded evidence that the cannabinoid system is involved in the extinction
of fear, presumed to underlie the beneficial effects of exposure therapy in
phobic disorders. A cannabinoid constituent that may enhance endocannabinoid
signaling is cannabidiol (CBD), a non-psychoactive component of cannabis. Hence, 
the addition of CBD to exposure therapy is expected to strengthen effects of
treatment. To determine the added benefit of CBD on exposure therapy, we conduct 
a randomized controlled trial, in which patients in whom previous treatment as
usual has not yielded sufficient response receive either CBD or placebo preceding
8 exposure sessions in a double-blind fashion. A subsidiary aim is to explore
which (combination of) clinical, behavioral and genetic profiles of patients are 
related to treatment response.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is an 8-week multicenter, randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled trial. Seventy-two patients with social phobia or panic
disorder with agoraphobia with incomplete response to earlier treatment will be
included from outpatient clinics in the Netherlands. Patients are randomized to
augmentation of exposure therapy with 300 mg CBD or placebo. The study medication
is administered orally, 2 h preceding each of the eight 90 min exposure sessions.
Measurements will take place at baseline, first administration of medication,
every session, mid-treatment, last administration of medication, post-treatment
and at 3 and 6 months' follow-up. The primary outcome measure is the score on the
Fear Questionnaire (FQ). In addition, determinants of the expected treatment
enhancing effect of CBD will be explored.
DISCUSSION: This is the first trial to investigate whether the addition of CBD to
exposure therapy is effective in reducing phobic symptoms in treatment refractory
patients with social phobia or panic disorder with agoraphobia.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register NTR5100 . Registered 13 March
2015. Protocol version: issue date 17 Jan 2018, protocol amendment number 7.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-019-2022-x 
PMCID: PMC6373100
PMID: 30760241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293.Visual and Hedonic Perception of Food Stimuli in Children with Autism Spectrum
Disorders and their Relationship to Food Neophobia.

The present study examined whether children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD)
and typically developing (TD) children differed in visual perception of food
stimuli at both sensorimotor and affective levels. A potential link between
visual perception and food neophobia was also investigated. To these aims, 11
children with ASD and 11 TD children were tested. Visual pictures of food were
used, and food neophobia was assessed by the parents. Results revealed that
children with ASD explored visually longer food stimuli than TD children.
Complementary analyses revealed that whereas TD children explored more
multiple-item dishes (vs. simple-item dishes), children with ASD explored all the
dishes in a similar way. In addition, children with ASD gave more negative
appreciation in general. Moreover, hedonic rating was negatively correlated with 
food neophobia scores in children with ASD, but not in TD children. In sum, we
show here that children with ASD have more difficulty than TD children in liking 
a food when presented visually. Our findings also suggest that a prominent factor
that needs to be considered is time management during the food choice process.
They also provide new ways of measuring and understanding food neophobia in
children with ASD.

DOI: 10.1177/0301006619828300 
PMID: 30758252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Burden of migraine in Finland: health care resource use, sick-leaves and
comorbidities in occupational health care.

BACKGROUND: The highest prevalence of migraine is detected among people who are
of working age. The aim of this study was to assess the burden of migraine in an 
occupational health care setting using real world data collected as a part of
routine clinical practice.
METHODS: This retrospective register study included migraineurs using
occupational health care at the private health care provider Terveystalo. An age 
and gender matched control population was established for comparison. Electronic 
medical records were assessed for overall and migraine related health care
visits, sick-leaves and comorbidities. Stratification to acute and prophylactic
treatment groups along with prophylactic treatment lines was based on
prescriptions.
RESULTS: Among the 369,383 individuals in the study cohort, 7.4% women and 2.1%
men were identified having a diagnosis of migraine. Prophylactic medication was
prescribed to 13% of migraine patients and exclusively acute medication to 37%.
Although migraine related visits and sick-leave days were significantly lower
than overall visits or sick-leave days, both increased by prophylactic treatment 
line. The number of visits rose from 13.8 to 26.2 and sick-leave days from 16.8
to 30.4 per patient-year, in those without prophylaxis vs. ≥3 prophylactic
treatments. Moreover, migraine patients had 1.7-fold increase in visits and
1.8-fold increase in sick leave days on average per patient-year, when compared
to the control population. Depression and anxiety were 1.8-fold more common among
patients with migraine, and the frequency also increase by treatment line.
CONCLUSIONS: Migraine burden increased by each failed treatment line and was
associated with increased comorbidity. In addition, migraine patients had
significantly higher extent of visits and sick-leave days as well as extent of
comorbidities when compared to their age- and gender-matched counterparts.

DOI: 10.1186/s10194-019-0964-5 
PMCID: PMC6734482
PMID: 30755160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295.Efficacy and Tolerability of Pharmacotherapy for Pediatric Anxiety Disorders: A
Network Meta-Analysis.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of pharmacotherapy in
pediatric anxiety disorders using network meta-analysis.
DATA SOURCES: PubMed, Cochrane Database, Web of Science, PsycNET, and
ClinicalTrials.gov were searched for double-blind, controlled pharmacotherapy
trials in youth with anxiety disorders from 1966 to September 2017.
DATA SELECTION: All double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of pharmacotherapy in
the treatment of pediatric patients with generalized, social, and/or separation
anxiety disorders were included.
DATA EXTRACTION: We extracted demographic, symptom severity, global improvement, 
discontinuation, and suicidality data. Risk of bias was assessed with the
Cochrane risk-of-bias tool, and a network meta-analysis comparing the efficacy
and tolerability of medications and medication classes was performed using the
gemtc package (R).
RESULTS: We identified 20 citations (22 RCTs, 24 treatment arms) with 2,623
patients. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) were the only class
that was superior in reducing anxiety (standardized mean difference: 5.2;
credible interval [CrI]: [2.8 to 8.8]) and in likelihood of treatment response
compared to placebo (odds ratio [OR]: 4.6; CrI: [3.1 to 7.5]).
Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) and α₂ agonist treatment were 
associated with more frequent treatment response compared to placebo. The
likelihood of treatment response was greater for SSRIs compared to SNRIs (OR:
1.9; CrI: [1.1 to 3.5]). All-cause discontinuation and treatment-emergent
suicidality significantly differed among medications but not medication class.
CONCLUSIONS: Although multiple medications reduce anxiety in children and
adolescents, treatment response, tolerability, and treatment-emergent suicidality
differ among these medications and medication classes. Determining whether
efficacy and tolerability differences represent true differences (or reflect
differences in trial design) requires additional head-to-head medication trials
and-to exclude the impact of missing treatment interventions-requires trials of
medications that successfully treat anxiety in adults but that have not been
evaluated in youth.



DOI: 10.4088/JCP.17r12064 
PMID: 30753760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296.The GET READY relapse prevention programme for anxiety and depression: a
mixed-methods study protocol.

BACKGROUND: Since anxiety and depressive disorders often recur, self-management
competencies are crucial for improving the long-term course of anxiety and
depressive disorders. However, few relapse prevention programmes are available
that focus on improving self-management. E-health combined with personal contact 
with a mental health professional in general practice might be a promising
approach for relapse prevention. In this protocol, the GET READY (Guided E-healTh
for RElapse prevention in Anxiety and Depression) study will be described in
which a relapse prevention programme is developed, implemented and evaluated. The
aim of the study is to determine patients' usage of the programme and the
associated course of their symptoms, to examine barriers and facilitators of
implementation, and to assess patients' satisfaction with the programme.
METHODS: Participants are discharged from mental healthcare services, and are in 
complete or partial remission. They receive access to an E-health platform,
combined with regular contact with a mental health professional in general
practices. Online questionnaires will be completed at baseline and after 3, 6 and
9 months. Also, semi-structured qualitative individual interviews and focus group
interviews will be conducted with patients and mental health professionals.
DISCUSSION: This mixed-methods observational cohort study will provide insights
into the use of a relapse prevention programme in relation to the occurrence of
symptoms, as well as in its implementation and evaluation. Using the results of
this study, the relapse prevention programme can be adapted in accordance with
the needs of patients and mental health professionals. If this programme is shown
to be acceptable, a randomized controlled trial may be conducted to test its
efficacy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Retrospectively registered in the Netherlands Trial Register 
( NTR7574 ; 25 October 2018).

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-019-2034-6 
PMCID: PMC6371559
PMID: 30744601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297.Aripiprazole augmentation in treating comorbid bipolar disorder and
obsessive-compulsive disorder: A systematic review.

BACKGROUND: Apparent comorbidity between bipolar disorder (BD) and
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a common condition in psychiatry, but
treatment of BD-OCD remains a clinical challenge. Although serotonin reuptake
inhibitors (SRIs) are the first line treatment for OCD, they can induce mood
instability in BD. An optimal treatment approach remains to be defined.
METHODS: A systematic review was conducted on aripiprazole augmentation in
treating comorbid BD-OCD patients. Relevant papers published through August 31st 
2018 were identified searching the electronic databases MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO
and the Cochrane Library.
RESULTS: Aripiprazole augmentation to mood stabilizers (lithium carbonate,
valproate), even at low doses (10-15 mg/day), helped to achieve significant
remission in affective and obsessive-compulsive symptoms. Aripiprazole was
generally safe and well tolerated.
LIMITATIONS: Most studies are case reports. Enrolment of subjects mainly from
outpatient specialty units might have introduced selection bias and limited
community-wide generalizability.
CONCLUSIONS: Keeping in mind scantiness and heterogeneity of the available
literature, the best interpretation of the available evidence appears to be that 
aripiprazole augmentation to mood stabilizers, even at low doses, is effective in
BD-OCD patients.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.02.024 
PMID: 30743017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298.Self-report and neurophysiological indicators of emotion processing and
regulation in social anxiety disorder.

Individuals with social anxiety disorder (SAD) report less habitual reappraisal
and more frequent suppression compared to healthy controls (HC). However, it is
unclear whether a neurophysiological index of emotional reactivity, the late
positive potential (LPP), is aberrant in SAD or whether self-reported reappraisal
or suppression relates to the LPP during on-line emotion reactivity and
reappraisal. Participants with SAD (n = 51) and HC (n = 31) completed an Emotion 
Regulation Task. Emotion reactivity and regulation were measured via LPP when
viewing negative images ('Look Negative') and when using a cognitive strategy to 
reduce negative affect ('Reappraise Negative'). Participants also completed a
self-report measure of habitual reappraisal and suppression. SAD participants
displayed heightened LPP for 'Look Negative' compared to HC. However, LPP for
online reappraisal was comparable between groups. Self-reported suppression
predicted the LPP during 'Look Negative' in HC, and there was a trend-level
relationship in SAD. LPP findings suggest targeted reappraisal approaches may
benefit individuals with SAD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2019.01.019 
PMID: 30742843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Effects of Cytochrome P450 2C19 Genetic Polymorphisms on Responses to
Escitalopram and Levels of Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor in Patients With
Panic Disorder.

PURPOSE/BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to examine the relationships
between ytochrome P450 family 2 subfamily C member 19 (CYP2C19) polymorphisms,
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plasma levels, and treatment responses
to escitalopram in Chinese patients with panic disorder (PD).
METHODS/PROCEDURES: Ninety patients with PD were administered the Panic Disorder 
Severity Scale-Chinese Version (PDSS-CV) and Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAMA-14)
from baseline to 8 weeks. Escitalopram treatment (10 mg/d) was administered for 8
consecutive weeks. Three CYP2C19 metabolizers, including extensive metabolizers, 
intermediate metabolizers, and poor metabolizers (PMs), and 5 CYP2C19 genotypes
were detected by polymerase chain reaction-genotyping microarray analysis.
Baseline plasma BDNF levels were tested using human BDNF enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay kits.
FINDINGS/RESULTS: Our findings showed no significant differences in demographic
data, baseline PDSS-CV scores, or HAMA-14 scores between the 3 CYP2C19
metabolizer groups (P's > 0.05). Repeated-measures analysis showed a significant 
reduction in PDSS-CV (F = 221.49, df = 3, P < 0.001) and HAMA-14 (F = 260.47, df 
= 3, P < 0.001) scores over 8 weeks in PD patients. In addition, patients with
PMs had a greater reduction in HAMA-14 scores (F = 2.14, P = 0.049) than did
those with extensive metabolizers and intermediate metabolizers. Moreover, our
findings showed that patients with *2/*2 genotypes had a greater reduction in
PDSS-CV scores than did those with other genotypes (F = 2.14, df = 12, P =
0.015).
IMPLICATIONS/CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides preliminary evidence of the effects 
of CYP2C19 PMs on treatment responses to escitalopram in Chinese PD patients, but
no significant correlation between treatment responses and BDNF levels was found.

DOI: 10.1097/JCP.0000000000001014 
PMID: 30742590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300.Correlates for state and trait anxiety in a multicultural sample of Turkish and
Spanish women at first trimester of pregnancy.

OBJECTIVE: The main objective of this research was to assess the potential
influence of cultural factors on the anxiety levels of a multicultural sample of 
Spanish and Turkish pregnant women at the beginning of the pregnancy.
METHODS: Between October and December 2017 a total of 250 Turkish and 264 Spanish
pregnant women attending their first pregnancy medical check-up between 10 and 12
weeks of pregnancy in three different cities, Istanbul, Antalya and Malaga, were 
recruited for study. These women completed a questionnaire that included the
Turkish or Spanish validated of the state-trait anxiety Inventory, and a series
of questions related to health status, general mood, and sociodemographic
variables.
RESULTS: The mean value for State Anxiety was 47.1 [16-56] (SD 4.2), and mild,
moderate and severe State Anxiety was observed in 56.8%, 14.7% and 20.5% of
participants, respectively. Mean value for trait anxiety was 46.9 [34-89] (SD
4.6) and 31.4%, 19.7% and 20.2% of participants scored for mild, moderate and
severe anxiety respectively. Anxiety scores were significantly higher among
Turkish women. In the whole sample, religion, working status, pregnancy planning 
and perceived partner´s support predicted anxiety at first trimester of
pregnancy. Social support and educational level were the most important
predictive variables in the Spanish subgroup, while religion, the number of
living children and the lack of husband´s support were among Turkish pregnant
women.
CONCLUSION: Our results confirm the existence of a high prevalence of women´s
anxiety at the beginning of the pregnancy and some differences between Turkish
and Spanish pregnant women have been observed. We have confirmed that some
cultural features like family structure (having more children and cohabitants),
the Islamic religion or the lack of perceived partner´s support became the most
important vulnerability elements.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.01.036 
PMID: 30739036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


301.One month of nitrous oxide abuse causing acute vitamin B 12 deficiency with
severe neuropsychiatric symptoms.

A 21-year-old university student studying abroad in the USA presented to the
emergency department with double vision, lower extremity weakness with difficulty
ambulating and other neuropsychiatric symptoms. MRI of the brain and spinal cord 
were normal. Vitamin B12 was 78 pg/mL (58 pmol/L, reference 211-911 pg/mL). The
patient had been using nitrous oxide capsules used for whipped cream recharging, 
which she obtained from other students, a few times daily for a month for the
purpose of anxiety relief. The patient was not a vegan or vegetarian. The patient
was treated with intramuscular vitamin B12 repletion with partial resolution of
neurologic symptoms and discharged on vitamin B12 supplementation.




DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2018-228001 
PMID: 30737329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Insomnia late in pregnancy is associated with perinatal anxiety: A longitudinal
cohort study.

BACKGROUND: Postpartum anxiety (PPA) affects a substantial number of women.
Despite increasing recognition of PPA, few studies have focused on perinatal
anxiety and potential PPA triggers. Here we aimed to estimate the prevalence of
perinatal anxiety disorders, and to explore the association between insomnia
during late pregnancy and anxiety before and after childbirth.
METHODS: This study was part of the large population-based Akershus Birth Cohort.
We analyzed data from the hospital's birth records and questionnaire responses
from pregnancy weeks 17 and 32 and postpartum week 8 (n = 1563). Perinatal
anxiety symptoms were measured using the Hopkins Symptom Check List. Anxiety
disorder measurements were based on questions from the Mini-International
Neuropsychiatric Interview. Insomnia was measured using the Bergen Insomnia
Scale.
RESULTS: Among perinatal women, 10% reported symptoms of at least one anxiety
disorder. The observed prevalence of obsessive-compulsive disorder was higher
after delivery (4.2%) than during pregnancy (2.5%). Multiple regression analysis,
with adjustment for several psychosocial and reproductive variables, indicated
that insomnia during pregnancy was significantly associated with postpartum
anxiety symptoms. However, this association was markedly weakened when depression
variables were included in the analysis, indicating that gestational insomnia may
also be a marker for a mood disorder.
LIMITATIONS: Immigrant and single women were underrepresented in our sample.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that anxiety disorders are prevalent during the 
perinatal period. Moreover, insomnia during pregnancy is associated with
perinatal anxiety. Health professionals should be aware that women with
gestational insomnia may have an increased risk of mood and anxiety disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.01.027 
PMID: 30735852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Psychiatric comorbid patterns in adults with attention-deficit hyperactivity
disorder: Treatment effect and subtypes.

Psychiatric comorbidities are common in individuals with
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). In this study, we sought to
evaluate the effects of medication and childhood ADHD subtypes on psychiatric
comorbidities among adults with ADHD as compared to healthy adult controls. We
assessed 121 drug-naïve adults with ADHD, 93 treated adults with ADHD, and 145
healthy controls (age 18-36 years) using semi-structured psychiatric interviews, 
intelligence tests, and medical records. Drug-naïve adults with ADHD had more
comorbidities than treated adults with ADHD and controls. Childhood ADHD-combined
subtype, relative to ADHD-inattentive subtype, was associated with higher risks
of comorbidities. Current medication treatment was associate with a higher risk
for anxiety disorders, and longer treatment duration was associated with lower
risks of mood disorders and sleep disorders. Our results indicate that no
medication treatment, short treatment duration, and childhood ADHD-combined
subtype are associated with increased risks for psychiatric comorbidities among
adults with ADHD.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211873 
PMCID: PMC6366698
PMID: 30730956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304.Fostering Student's Engagement and Active Learning in Neuroscience Education.

Neurophobia is a term coined to describe university students' fear of
neuroscience, which negatively affect learning. The implementation of new
technologies in higher education, such as new response systems, provide an
opportunity to improve neurosciences learning and teaching by engaging students. 
However, most response systems rely on student devices such as clickers. The aim 
of this study is to illustrate the application of a new digital application for
collection of real-time formative assessment data in higher education. Results of
this study support the utility paper-based response cards to foster engagement
and active learning in higher education, even with complex neuroscience topics,
providing real-time formative assessment data without the need for student
devices.

DOI: 10.1007/s10916-019-1192-x 
PMID: 30729354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. The Prevalence of Psychiatric Disorders in Children and Adolescents in Hamadan
Province, West of Iran.

BACKGROUND: There are numerous reports regarding increasing childhood and
adolescent mental health problems. The aim of this study was to determine the
prevalence of psychiatric disorders in Hamadan Province, west of Iran from July
2016 to May 2017.
STUDY DESIGN: A cross-sectional study.
METHODS: The sample included 1025 Hamadan residents selected using multistage
cluster sampling. Psychiatric disorders were assessed by semi-structured
psychiatric interview Kiddie-Sads-Present and Lifetime Version (K-SADS-PL). The
data were analyzed using the SPSS software. We used the multivariable logistic
regression to predict the Odds Ratios (ORs).
RESULTS: The prevalence of total psychiatric disorder was 8.6%. Psychiatric
disorders in boys were higher than girls (12.6% and 4.9%, respectively). The
psychiatric disorders were most prevalent in 6-9 yr old age group (11%). The
prevalence of behavioral disorder was 3.8% with attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder (ADHD) as the most prevalent case (2.0%). The prevalence of anxiety
disorder was 2.8% in which the highest prevalence belonged to separation anxiety 
disorder (SAD) (1.1%). The prevalence of neurodevelopment disorder was 1.5% with 
the highest prevalence of 1% observed in epilepsy. The prevalence of mood
disorder was 1.1% with the depressive disorder as the most prevalent one (1.0%). 
The prevalence of enuresis was 2.7%. The most common comorbidities were anxiety
and mood disorders 5(50.0%).
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of these disorders in Hamadan was less than the
prevalence in other cities of Iran. These findings can be helpful for large-scale
planning for children and adolescents.


PMID: 30728318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. A comparison of DSM-5 and DSM-IV agoraphobia in the World Mental Health Surveys.

BACKGROUND: The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, version 5 
(DSM-5) definition of agoraphobia (AG) as an independent diagnostic entity makes 
it timely to re-examine the epidemiology of AG. Study objective was to present
representative data on the characteristics of individuals who meet DSM-IV
criteria for AG (AG without a history of panic disorder [PD] and PD with AG) but 
not DSM-5 criteria, DSM-5 but not DSM-IV criteria, or both sets of criteria.
METHODS: Population-based surveys from the World Mental Health Survey Initiative 
including adult respondents (n = 136,357) from 27 countries across the world. The
Composite International Diagnostic Interview was used to assess AG and other
disorders.
RESULTS: Lifetime and 12-month prevalence estimates of DSM-5 AG (1.5% and 1.0%)
were comparable to DSM-IV (1.4% and 0.9%). Of respondents meeting criteria in
either system, 57.1% met criteria in both, while 24.2% met criteria for DSM-5
only and 18.8% for DSM-IV only. Severe role impairment due to AG was reported by 
a lower proportion of respondents who met criteria only for DSM-IV AG (30.4%)
than those with both DSM-5 and DSM-IV AG (44.0%; χ 2 1  = 4.7; P = 0.031). The
proportion of cases with any comorbidity was lower among respondents who met
criteria only for DSM-IV AG (78.7%) than those who met both sets (92.9%; χ 2 1
= 14.5; P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This first large survey shows that, compared to the DSM-IV, the
DSM-5 identifies a substantial group of new cases with AG, while the prevalence
rate remains stable at 1.5%. Severity and comorbidity are higher in individuals
meeting DSM-5 AG criteria compared with individuals meeting DSM-IV AG criteria
only.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22885 
PMCID: PMC6548607
PMID: 30726581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Cultural Identity Confusion and Psychopathology: A Mixed-Methods Study Among
Refugees and Asylum Seekers in the Netherlands.

Although there is ample empirical evidence that traumatic events, postmigration
stress, and acculturation problems have a great impact on the mental health of
refugees, so far no studies have included cultural identity after migration in
the equation. This mixed-methods study conducted among Afghan and Iraqi refugee
and asylum-seeker psychiatric patients aims to fill this gap. Associations
between postmigration stress, symptoms of anxiety and depression disorders, and
symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder were significant. When differentiated
for the two groups, associations with postmigration stress were no longer
significant for Afghan patients, who were predominantly younger and more often
single, lower educated, and without resident status compared with Iraqi patients.
Qualitative results indicate that, in addition to psychopathology and
postmigration stress, acculturation problems contribute to confusion of cultural 
identity. The findings suggest that reduction of postmigration stress and
acculturation problems may clarify cultural identity and as such may contribute
to posttraumatic recovery.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000000935 
PMCID: PMC6392308
PMID: 30724831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308.High-Intensity Interval Training in Panic Disorder Patients: A Pilot Study.

High-intensity interval training (HIIT) may produce strong physiological but also
psychological effects within a short period. However, it is questionable if this 
type of training is applicable and effective in patients with panic disorder (PD)
because they are more vulnerable to the adverse effects of exercise. Twelve PD
patients performed a 12-day HIIT trial. Every second day, patients performed 10
high-intensive 1-minute intervals at 77% to 95% of their maximum heart rate
separated by 1-minute intervals with moderate to low intensity. All patients
completed the 12-day training period. PD severity, agoraphobia, depression,
general disorder severity, and endurance performance improved substantially with 
moderate to large effects sizes. Moreover, the increase in endurance performance 
was correlated with the reduction of depression and agoraphobia. HIIT was well
tolerated by patients with PD and may induce rapid and strong therapeutic
effects. A randomized controlled clinical trial is needed to verify our findings.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000000944 
PMID: 30724830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309.Can Social Anxiety Impact Facial Emotion Recognition in Schizophrenia?

Social anxiety is highly prevalent in individuals with schizophrenia, with
studies suggesting rates of 30%. This study aimed at determining if social
anxiety is linked to specific emotion recognition deficits and to specific social
functioning deficits. A total of 47 participants with a diagnosis of
schizophrenia and receiving outpatient services answered measures of facial
recognition (Ekman; Facial Emotion Identification Test), facial discrimination
(Facial Emotion Discrimination Test), role-play, social anxiety (Social
Interaction Anxiety Scale and Brief Social Phobia Scale), psychiatric symptoms
(Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale), self-esteem (Self-Esteem Rating Scale-Short
Form), and social functioning (Social Functioning Scale). A total of 22 (47%)
participants were rated as socially anxious. Those with social anxiety had worse 
social functioning in the domains of interpersonal communication (t[45] = 2.28, p
= 0.025) and engagement (in conversations) (t[45] = 2.89, p = 0.000) and had
lower self-esteem (t[45] = 4.05, p = 0.001). Participants with social anxiety
also had more difficulties in recognizing neutral emotional faces (t[31] = 2.19, 
p = 0.036). More studies are warranted to better understand the link between
neutral expression recognition and social anxiety in schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000000934 
PMID: 30720605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310.The Nose Knows… or Does it? Olfactory Reference Syndrome in Patients Presenting
for Assessment of Unusual Body Odor.

Olfactory reference syndrome (ORS) is a rarely diagnosed psychiatric disorder in 
which individuals falsely believe that they emit an offensive body odor. This
retrospective cohort study characterizes the clinical and demographic features of
54 individuals who presented to a Canadian genetics clinic for query
trimethylaminuria (TMAU), an inherited disorder in which a pungent fishy odor is 
produced. The majority (83%) were found to have a likely diagnosis of ORS and a
high rate (73.3%) of concomitant psychiatric disorders; only two patients were
diagnosed with TMAU. This study highlights the genetics clinic as an unexpected
and major ascertainment point for ORS, and shows that ORS can be differentiated
from TMAU by age of onset (~28 years), odor characterization (refuse-related),
and the presence of associated comorbid psychiatric diagnoses. There is a low
diagnostic rate of ORS, attesting to the need for improved education and
awareness.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000000933 
PMID: 30720598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311.Maternal thyroid autoimmunity associated with acute-onset neuropsychiatric
disorders and global regression in offspring.

Epidemiological studies, animal models, and case-control studies indicate
maternal immune activation may be an important factor involved in disease
expression of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), Tourette syndrome, and
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). We report eight children (mean age 6y 6mo
[range 4-15y]; six males and two females) referred over a 2-year period with at
least one of these neurodevelopmental disorders plus a maternal history of
thyroid autoimmunity. Seven of eight children presented with an abrupt onset of
neuropsychiatric symptoms (OCD [n=6], tics [n=5], and/or psychosis [n=1]),
associated with an autistic or global regression. Four children had a
pre-existing diagnosis of ASD. Six presentations were preceded by infection, and 
symptoms followed a relapsing-remitting course in seven children. All children
responded to immunomodulatory treatment as indicated by a reduction in
psychiatric symptoms, and seven children were also managed with conventional
treatment with additional improvement. We propose that maternal autoimmunity can 
activate fetal microglia or alter transcription of neurodevelopmental
vulnerability and/or immune genes in utero, and is an environmental factor that
increases the expression and severity of neurodevelopmental problems, and
susceptibility to deteriorations after infectious or stress stimuli. WHAT THIS
PAPER ADDS: Maternal thyroid autoimmunity may represent a risk factor for
neuropsychiatric disorders in offspring. Atypical neuropsychiatric features in
these children may be due to maternal immune activation in utero.

PMID: 30720202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312.Do polygenic risk and stressful life events predict pharmacological treatment
response in obsessive compulsive disorder? A gene-environment interaction
approach.

The rate of response to pharmacological treatment in Obsessive-compulsive
disorder (OCD) oscillates between 40 and 70%. Genetic and environmental factors
have been associated with treatment response in OCD. This study analyzes the
predictive ability of a polygenic risk score (PRS) built from OCD-risk variants, 
for treatment response in OCD, and the modulation role of stressful life events
(SLEs) at the onset of the disorder. PRSs were calculated for a sample of 103
patients. Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (YBOCS) scores were obtained
before and after a 12-week treatment. Regression analyses were performed to
analyze the influence of the PRS and SLEs at onset on treatment response. PRS did
not predict treatment response. The best predictive model for post-treatment
YBOCS (post YBOCS) included basal YBOCS and age. PRS appeared as a predictor for 
basal and post YBOCS. SLEs at onset were not a predictor for treatment response
when included in the regression model. No evidence for PRS predictive ability for
treatment response was found. The best predictor for treatment response was age, 
agreeing with previous literature specific for SRI treatment. Suggestions are
made on the possible role of neuroplasticity as a mediator on this association.
PRS significantly predicted OCD severity independent on pharmacological
treatment. SLE at onset modulation role was not evidenced. Further research is
needed to elucidate the genetic and environmental bases of treatment response in 
OCD.

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-019-0410-0 
PMCID: PMC6362161
PMID: 30718812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313.Orexin in the anxiety spectrum: association of a HCRTR1 polymorphism with panic
disorder/agoraphobia, CBT treatment response and fear-related intermediate
phenotypes.

Preclinical studies point to a pivotal role of the orexin 1 (OX1) receptor in
arousal and fear learning and therefore suggest the HCRTR1 gene as a prime
candidate in panic disorder (PD) with/without agoraphobia (AG), PD/AG treatment
response, and PD/AG-related intermediate phenotypes. Here, a multilevel approach 
was applied to test the non-synonymous HCRTR1 C/T Ile408Val gene variant
(rs2271933) for association with PD/AG in two independent case-control samples
(total n = 613 cases, 1839 healthy subjects), as an outcome predictor of a
six-weeks exposure-based cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) in PD/AG patients
(n = 189), as well as with respect to agoraphobic cognitions (ACQ) (n = 483
patients, n = 2382 healthy subjects), fMRI alerting network activation in healthy
subjects (n = 94), and a behavioral avoidance task in PD/AG pre- and post-CBT
(n = 271). The HCRTR1 rs2271933 T allele was associated with PD/AG in both
samples independently, and in their meta-analysis (p = 4.2 × 10-7), particularly 
in the female subsample (p = 9.8 × 10-9). T allele carriers displayed a
significantly poorer CBT outcome (e.g., Hamilton anxiety rating scale:
p = 7.5 × 10-4). The T allele count was linked to higher ACQ sores in PD/AG and
healthy subjects, decreased inferior frontal gyrus and increased locus coeruleus 
activation in the alerting network. Finally, the T allele count was associated
with increased pre-CBT exposure avoidance and autonomic arousal as well as
decreased post-CBT improvement. In sum, the present results provide converging
evidence for an involvement of HCRTR1 gene variation in the etiology of PD/AG and
PD/AG-related traits as well as treatment response to CBT, supporting future
therapeutic approaches targeting the orexin-related arousal system.

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-019-0415-8 
PMCID: PMC6361931
PMID: 30718541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Structural neuroimaging correlates of social deficits are similar in autism
spectrum disorder and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: analysis from the
POND Network.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD), attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), 
and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have been associated with difficulties
recognizing and responding to social cues. Neuroimaging studies have begun to map
the social brain; however, the specific neural substrates contributing to social 
deficits in neurodevelopmental disorders remain unclear. Three hundred and twelve
children underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging of the brain
(controls = 32, OCD = 44, ADHD = 77, ASD = 159; mean age = 11). Their social
deficits were quantified on the Social Communication Questionnaire (SCQ) and the 
Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test (RMET). Multivariable regression models were
used to examine the structural neuroimaging correlates of social deficits, with
both a region of interest and a whole-brain vertex-wise approach. For the region 
of interest analysis, social brain regions were grouped into three networks: (1) 
lateral mentalization (e.g., temporal-parietal junction), (2) frontal cognitive
(e.g., orbitofrontal cortex), and (3) subcortical affective (e.g., limbic system)
regions. Overall, social communication deficits on the SCQ were associated with
thinner cortices in the left lateral regions and the right insula, and decreased 
volume in the ventral striatum, across diagnostic groups (p = 0.006 to <0.0001). 
Smaller subcortical volumes were associated with more severe social deficits on
the SCQ in ASD and ADHD, and less severe deficits in OCD. On the RMET, larger
amygdala/hippocampal volumes were associated with fewer deficits across groups.
Overall, patterns of associations were similar in ASD and ADHD, supporting a
common underlying biology and the blurring of the diagnostic boundaries between
these disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-019-0382-0 
PMCID: PMC6361977
PMID: 30718456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Affective modulation of the associative-limbic subthalamic nucleus: deep brain
stimulation in obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Affective states underlie daily decision-making and pathological behaviours
relevant to obsessive-compulsive disorders (OCD), mood disorders and addictions. 
Deep brain stimulation targeting the motor and associative-limbic subthalamic
nucleus (STN) has been shown to be effective for Parkinson's disease (PD) and
OCD, respectively. Cognitive and electrophysiological studies in PD showed
responses of the motor STN to emotional stimuli, impairments in recognition of
negative affective states and modulation of the intensity of subjective emotion. 
Here we studied whether the stimulation of the associative-limbic STN in OCD
influences the subjective emotion to low-intensity positive and negative images
and how this relates to clinical symptoms. We assessed 10 OCD patients with on
and off STN DBS in a double-blind randomized manner by recording ratings of
valence and arousal to low- and high-intensity positive and negative emotional
images. STN stimulation increased positive ratings and decreased negative ratings
to low-intensity positive and negative stimuli, respectively, relative to off
stimulation. We also show that the change in severity of obsessive-compulsive
symptoms pre- versus post-operatively interacts with both DBS and valence
ratings. We show that stimulation of the associative-limbic STN might influence
the negative cognitive bias in OCD and decreasing the negative appraisal of
emotional stimuli with a possible relationship with clinical outcomes. That the
effect is specific to low intensity might suggest a role of uncertainty or
conflict related to competing interpretations of image intensity. These findings 
may have implications for the therapeutic efficacy of DBS.

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-019-0404-y 
PMCID: PMC6361948
PMID: 30718450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Work-related burn injuries and claims for post-traumatic stress disorder in
Korea.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to broaden our understanding of
psychiatric disorders due to work-related burn injury compensated by the
Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance operated by the Korea Workers'
Compensation and Welfare Service (KCOMWEL).
METHODS: Using the KCOMWEL electronic database, we collected data on psychiatric 
disorders due to work-related burn injury based on workers' compensation records 
from 2005 to 2014 and analyzed the characteristics of the claims.
RESULTS: The average number of claims per year for post-traumatic stress disorder
was 67 and the approval rate from 2005 to 2014 was 53.6%. Regarding occupation,
63 workers were elementary workers involved in the performance of simple and
routine tasks which may require the use of hand-held tools and considerable
physical effort and 59 were electrical and electronic equipment fitters and
repairers. Acute stress disorder, nonorganic insomnia, and sexual dysfunction
were the most commonly approved psychiatric disorders associated with
work-related burn injury, followed by mixed anxiety-depressive disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: We analyzed the characteristics of the psychiatric disorders due to 
work-related burn injury for which compensation was received from 2005 to 2014
according to the approved results. To gain a long-term understanding of the
management of workers' compensation status for psychiatric disorders due to
work-related burn injuries, we should gather accurate information on the risk
factors involved in order to achieve the needed systematic improvements.



DOI: 10.1016/j.burns.2018.08.016 
PMID: 30718028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317.What we have learned from the Methadone Maintenance Treatment of Dual Disorder
Heroin Use Disorder patients.

Mental Disorders and Heroin Use Disorder (HUD) often co-occur and constitute
correlated risk factors that the authors believe are best considered from a
unitary perspective. In this article we review and discuss data collected by the 
V.P. Dole Research Group in Dual Disorder (V.P. Dole DD-RG) patients according to
the following six discussion points: (1) Treatment of personality disorders
during Methadone Maintenance Treatment (MMT); (2) Treatment of Mood Disorders
during MMT; (3) Treatment of Anxiety Disorders during MMT; (4) Treatment of
Psychotic Disorders during MMT; (5) Treatment of violence during MMT; (6)
Treatment of Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) during MMT. In treating Mood Disorder in 
HUD patients, we must bear in mind the interactions (potentiation and side
effects) between psychopharmacology, used substances and agonist opioid
medications; the use of psychiatric medications as an anti-craving drug, and the 
possible use of agonist and antagonist opioid medications in treating the other
mental disorders. In treating chronic psychosis in HUD patients, we must consider
the potentiation and side effects of antipsychotic drugs consequent on HUD
treatment, worsening addiction hypophoria and inducing a more severe reward
deficiency syndrome (RDS) in hypophoric patients. Violence and AUD during MMT can
benefit from adequate dosages of methadone and co-medication with Sodium
gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB). The experience of our V.P. Dole DD-RG suggests the
following: (a) DD is the new paradigm in neuroscience in deepening our
understanding of mental health; (b) To successfully treat DD patients a double
competence is needed; (c) In managing DD patients priority must be given to
Substance Use Disorder (SUD) treatment (stabilizing patients); (d) Antidepressant
use is ancillary to SUD treatment; antipsychotic use must be restricted to acute 
phases; mood stabilizers must be preferred; any use of Benzodiazepines (BDZs)
must be avoided.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph16030447 
PMCID: PMC6388207
PMID: 30717435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Congruence and discrepancy between self-rated and clinician-rated symptom
severity on the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) before and after a
low-intensity intervention.

The Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) is the most common measure of 
Obsessive-Compulsive symptom severity. The Y-BOCS interview is considered gold
standard, but its self-rating format is increasingly used in clinical trials. Few
studies investigated congruency and potential changes over treatment. This
question is highly relevant, as a systematic bias might obscure results of
clinical trials. We examined the relationship of self- and clinician-rated Y-BOCS
scores in participants with obsessive-compulsive disorder in pre (N = 128), post,
(4 weeks, n = 104) and follow-up (6 months, n = 98) assessments of a
randomized-controlled clinical trial. We administered Y-BOCS interview via
telephone paralleling online administration of the self-report form. Analyses
showed medium-to-strong correlations of Y-BOCS interview and self-rating scores
at pre-assessment. Patients rated symptoms lower than clinicians. Larger
discrepancies were associated with hoarding and age. Congruency was inferior for 
obsessions relative to compulsions, largely owing to the "resistance against
obsessions" item. Agreement strongly increased at post and follow-up. Though
overall congruency between the two Y-BOCS forms was satisfactory, results suggest
a "correction over time" effect. Such bias may distort the precise interpretation
of treatment effects. Therefore, we made several suggestions to improve the
reliability of change scores assessed with the Y-BOCS self-rating.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2019.01.092 
PMID: 30716599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Time-varying moderation of treatment outcomes by illness duration and comorbid
depression in generalized anxiety disorder.

OBJECTIVE: To extend the sparse literature on moderators, we used time-varying
effect modeling (TVEM; Tan, Shiyko, Li, Li, & Dierker, 2012) to examine how
depressive symptoms and duration of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) moderated 
effects of 3 treatments for GAD (applied relaxation [AR], cognitive-behavioral
therapy [CBT], and nondirective therapy [ND]) over time using intensive repeated 
measures.
METHOD: In a secondary analysis of Borkovec and Costello (1993), 66 GAD clients
were randomly assigned to AR (n = 23), CBT (n = 23), or ND (n = 20). Clients
received 12 therapy sessions over 6 weeks, and after 2 weeks of posttreatment
assessment, had 2 additional weekly fading sessions. They completed thrice daily 
anxiety ratings during this 10-week period. GAD duration (Anxiety Disorders
Interview Schedule-Revised) and depressive symptoms (Hamilton Depression Rating
Scale) were assessed at baseline.
RESULTS: Longer GAD duration predicted less anxiety reduction in CBT and ND
relative to AR. These effects were pronounced in the later phase of treatment,
suggesting benefits of focused relaxation practice for clients with longer
duration. Higher depression predicted better response to CBT than AR and ND. The 
moderation effects were also more noticeable in the later phase. In multilevel
analyses, a similar moderation pattern held at 1-year follow-up on
clinician-rated measures.
CONCLUSION: GAD clients with long-standing symptoms may benefit more from
repeatedly practicing fewer skills than learning multiple skills. On the other
hand, clients with comorbid depression may respond better to CBT than AR, perhaps
because CBT includes cognitive interventions that can generalize to depression.
(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/ccp0000385 
PMCID: PMC6632089 [Available on 2020-03-01]
PMID: 30714750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Pharmacological treatments for generalised anxiety disorder: a systematic review 
and network meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: Generalised anxiety disorder is a disease that can be associated with
substantial dysfunction. Pharmacological treatment is often the first choice for 
clinicians because of the cost and resource constraints of psychological
alternatives, but there is a paucity of comparative information for the multiple 
available drug choices.
METHODS: A systematic review and network meta-analysis was performed on
randomised trials in adult outpatients with generalised anxiety disorder
identified from MEDLINE, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, ClinicalTrials.gov,
Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), Wanfang data, Drugs@FDA and
commercial pharmaceutical registries. Placebo and active control trials were
included. Data were extracted from all manuscripts and reports. Primary outcomes 
were efficacy (mean difference [MD] in change in Hamilton Anxiety Scale Score)
and acceptability (study discontinuations for any cause). We estimated summary
mean treatment differences and odds ratios using network meta-analyses with
random effects. This study is registered with PROSPERO, number CRD42018087106.
FINDINGS: Studies were published between Jan 1, 1994 and Aug 1, 2017, in which
1992 potential studies were screened for inclusion. This analysis is based on 89 
trials, which included 25 441 patients randomly assigned to 22 different active
drugs or placebo. Duloxetine (MD -3·13, 95% credible interval [CrI] -4·13 to
-2·13), pregabalin (MD -2·79, 95% CrI -3·69 to -1·91), venlafaxine (MD -2·69, 95%
CrI -3·50 to -1·89), and escitalopram (MD -2·45, 95% CrI -3·27 to -1·63) were
more efficacious than placebo with relatively good acceptability. Mirtazapine,
sertraline, fluoxetine, buspirone, and agomelatine were also found to be
efficacious and well tolerated but these findings were limited by small sample
sizes. Quetiapine (MD -3·60 95% CrI -4·83 to -2·39) had the largest effect on
HAM-A but it was poorly tolerated (odds ratio 1·44, 95% CrI 1·16-1·80) when
compared with placebo. Likewise, paroxetine and benzodiazepines were effective
but also poorly tolerated when compared with placebo. Risk of reporting bias was 
considered low, and when possible all completed studies were included to avoid
publication bias.
INTERPRETATION: To our knowledge, this is the largest contemporary review of
pharmacological agents for the treatment of generalised anxiety disorder by use
of network analysis. There are several effective treatment choices for
generalised anxiety disorder across classes of medication. The failure of initial
pharmacological therapy might not be a reason to abandon a pharmacological
treatment strategy.
FUNDING: No funding was received for this research.



DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)31793-8 
PMID: 30712879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. One-session cognitive behavior treatment for long-term frequent attenders in
primary care: randomized controlled trial.

AIM: The aim of the study was to find out, if a single cognitive behavior
treatment (CBT) session for long-term frequent attenders in primary care affects 
the attendance frequency and mental well-being of the patients.
METHODS: Out of 193 long-term frequent attenders, 56 participated and were
randomized to receive either a one-session CBT intervention or usual care. The
groups were compared to each other regarding change in general practitioner
visits and change in depressive symptoms, sense of coherence, somatoform symptoms
and hypochondriacal anxiety at six months' follow-up.
RESULTS: The attendance frequency decreased in both groups, but there was no
difference between the groups. Changes in mental functioning did not differ
between the groups. When patients with no mental health disorder were analyzed
separately, the decrease in GP visits was significantly higher in the
intervention group than in the control group (p = .004).
CONCLUSION: A single session of CBT is not useful in reducing GP visits or
improving mental well-being of long-term frequent attenders. Frequent attenders
without a psychiatric disorder may benefit from this kind of intervention.

DOI: 10.1080/02813432.2019.1569371 
PMCID: PMC6452827
PMID: 30712444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Incidence of sleep problems and their mediating role on depression and anxious
preoccupation in patients with resected, non-advanced cancer: data from NEOcoping
study.

BACKGROUND: Our study analyzes the incidence of sleep problems and their
mediating role on depression and anxious preoccupation in patients with resected,
non-advanced cancer.
METHODS: A multi-institutional, prospective, observational study was conducted
with 750 participants of 14 hospitals in Spain. Participants' socio-demographic
and clinical characteristics were collected using a standardized self-report form
and using EORTC QoL-QLQ-C30, BSI, Mini-MAC questionnaires.
RESULTS: In women, sleep problems, depression and anxious preoccupation were
observed in 65, 41 and 21%, respectively. In men, sleep problems, depression and 
anxious preoccupation were reported in 51, 29 and 61%, respectively. More sleep
problems, depression and anxious preoccupation were found among women than males.
Depression was a significant predictor of anxious preoccupation. In males, sleep 
problems partially mediated this association. This was not confirmed in women.
CONCLUSION: Our findings point toward the importance of developing interventions 
that decrease depression and sleep problems in cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-018-02018-2 
PMID: 30712235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323.Prevalence, clinical correlates and IQ of suicidal ideation in drug naïve Chinese
Han patients with major depressive disorder.

BACKGROUND: Suicidal ideation (SI) is a common and serious clinical concern in
people with major depressive disorder (MDD). Inconsistent evidence suggests that 
individuals with SI may have a lower measured intelligence quotient (IQ) than
those without SI. The aims of this study were to examine SI prevalence and its
associations with demographic, clinical variables and IQ in Chinese drug-naïve
MDD patients.
METHODS: 488 drug-naïve Chinese Han patients (male: 203, 41.6%) meeting a DSM-IV 
diagnosis of MDD were enrolled in a cross-sectional study involving seven
hospitals. All participants were asked to complete a series of questionnaires,
which include information on socio-demographic and clinical variables. The
Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD), Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA) and
Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) were also administered. Verbal IQ (VIQ),
performance IQ (PIQ) and full-scale IQ (FIQ) scores were measured using the
Chinese version of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Ⅲ (WAIS-Ⅲ). We
categorized patients with SI based on a cut-off score of ≥3 on HAMD item 3.
RESULTS: An estimated prevalence 32.8% (160/488) of drug-naïve MDD patients
experienced SI during the current episode of illness. Patients with SI were more 
likely to be divorced (x2 = 6.93, p = 0.031), male (x2 = 6.04, p = 0.014), had
higher severity of depression and anxiety symptoms (t = -8.14, p < 0.001,
t = -3.28, p < 0.001, respectively), comorbid psychotic features (t = -5.71,
p < 0.001), and lower FIQ levels (t = -4.21, p < 0.001), when compared to
patients without SI. Using logistic regression analysis and adjusting for
confounding variables, the following variables were independently associated with
SI: divorced marital status compared to married (OR=4.674, 95% CI: 1.676~13.036),
severity of depression symptoms (OR=1.312, 95% CI: 1.196~1.440), psychotic
features (OR=1.044; 1.012~1.077), and FIQ /PIQ levels which expressed in OR per
SD increase in IQ score (OR=0.740, 95% CI: 0.561~0.977; OR=0.744, 95% CI:
0.557~0.994, respectively).
LIMITATIONS: A cross-sectional study which did not assess the influence of
severity of SI.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of SI in drug-naive Chinese patients with MDD is
high, and associated with marital status, severity of depression, psychotic
features and measured IQ. Further research is needed to further explore these and
other potentially relevant risk factors which might affect clinical outcomes.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.017 
PMID: 30711870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Feasibility of a group-based laughter yoga intervention as an adjunctive
treatment for residual symptoms of depression, anxiety and stress in people with 
depression.


BACKGROUND: Laughter Yoga (LY) is a group-based intervention involving simulated 
laughter, gentle stretching, rhythmic breathing and meditation. There is some
limited evidence that LY reduces depressive symptoms over the short term.
However, the quality of previous LY studies is poor and none involved
working-aged people with a clinical diagnosis of depression. Therefore, this
study aimed to investigate the feasibility and potential efficacy of LY for
improving residual mood, anxiety and stress symptoms in adults diagnosed with
depression.
METHODS: Fifty participants were randomised to the group LY intervention (n = 23)
consisting of eight sessions over four weeks, or treatment-as-usual (n = 27).
Participants completed the Depression Anxiety Stress Scale and the Short Form 12 
item Health Survey at baseline (T0), post-intervention (T1) and at 3 months
follow-up (T2). LY participants also completed a Client Satisfaction
Questionnaire (CSQ8) at T1 and eleven participated in individual qualitative
interviews at T2.
RESULTS: The LY group had statistically greater decreases in depression and
improvements in mental health related quality of life compared to the control
group from T0 to T1. The CSQ8 scores indicated a favourable level of satisfaction
with the LY intervention. The qualitative interviews highlighted aspects of the
intervention that were effective and those requiring modification.
LIMITATIONS: Limitations include the small sample size and treatment-as-usual
control group.
CONCLUSIONS: A full scale RCT of LY could be feasible if some modifications were 
made to the protocol/intervention. The intervention may be effective to improve
depression and mental health related quality of life immediately post
intervention.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.01.030 
PMID: 30711868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. On a continuum to anxiety disorders: Adolescents at parental risk for anxiety
show smaller rostral anterior cingulate cortex and insula thickness.

BACKGROUND: Having a parent with an anxiety disorder increases the risk of
anxiety symptoms and anxiety disorders during the lifespan. Moreover, childhood
and adolescence anxiety disorders and symptoms have been linked to a range of
brain structure abnormalities. However, to date, no study has investigated brain 
anatomy in adolescents at high risk based on parental anxiety disorders and in
adolescents with an anxiety disorder but without any treatment or therapy.
METHODS: Anatomical images from magnetic resonance imaging of 68 adolescents with
anxiety disorders without any treatment (N = 20), at risk for anxiety because of 
their parents' anxiety disorders (N = 21), and comparison youths (N = 27), were
analyzed using Freesurfer.
RESULTS: Compared to comparison group, smaller cortical thickness of the rostral 
anterior cingulate cortex and of the insula was observed in anxious and at-risk
groups; smaller amygdala volume was observed in the anxious group only.
LIMITATIONS: The age range studied is large (10 to 17 years old). Moreover, this 
study is cross-sectional. Since adolescence is one of the biggest periods of
cerebral reorganization, longitudinal follow-up of these youths would be
necessary.
CONCLUSIONS: Smaller rostral anterior cingulate cortex and insula cortical
thickness appear to be cerebral markers of the risk of developing an anxiety
disorder in adolescence. The reduction of the amygdala volume seems to be linked 
to the onset of the disorder.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.01.028 
PMID: 30711867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Examining differential relationships among self-reported attentional control,
depression, and anxiety in a transdiagnostic clinical sample.

BACKGROUND: Poor attentional control, defined as difficulty focusing attention on
a task or shifting attention flexibly between tasks, is a transdiagnostic
construct theorized to confer risk for, and maintain, depression and anxiety.
Research to date in non-clinical samples has suggested a dissociable relationship
between the two factors of self-reported attentional control and psychopathology,
with depression being associated with difficulties shifting and anxiety being
associated with focusing. However, to our knowledge no study has tested this
differential set of relationships in a clinical sample.
METHODS: Adults (N = 493) presenting for psychiatric treatment completed measures
of depressive and anxiety symptom severity and self-reported attentional control.
Hierarchical linear regression and Zou's (2007) confidence interval method were
used to examine the relationship between clinical symptoms and attentional
control.
RESULTS: Both shifting and focusing were significantly correlated with anxiety
and depressive symptoms in this sample. However, focusing was more strongly
associated with clinical symptomatology than shifting, which showed a weak
correlation.
LIMITATIONS: All constructs were measured cross-sectionally by self-report
questionnaires.
CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to studies conducted in non-clinical samples,
attentional focusing appears to be more relevant than attentional shifting in a
clinical sample for both depression and anxiety symptoms. These findings lend
support to efforts to develop neurocognitive interventions that improve focusing.
Replication of these findings, particularly in longitudinal studies, is
warranted.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.01.017 
PMID: 30711866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Association between autonomic dysfunction and olfactory dysfunction in
Parkinson's disease in southern Chinese.

BACKGROUND: The aim was to investigate the autonomic dysfunction between
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with olfactory dysfunction and PD patients
without olfactory dysfunction in southern Chinese population.
METHODS: Fifty-six PD patients with olfactory dysfunction and 44 patients without
olfactory dysfunction were included. All patients were evaluated by Sniffin'
sticks (SS-16), scales for outcomes in Parkinson's disease-autonomic
questionnaire, Hamilton anxiety rating scale and Hamilton depression rating scale
RESULTS: The score of subpart of gastrointestinal symptoms and subpart of urinary
symptoms were different in two groups (gastrointestinal symptoms: p value: 0.024;
urinary symptoms: p value: 0.008). As for each question items, questions 2, 8,
10, 11, 13, 14 were correlated with SS-16 scores (Question 2: p value: 0.013;
question 6: p value: 0.006; question 8: p value: 0.025; question 10: p value:
0.005; question 11: p value: 0.022; question 13: p value: < 0.001; question 14: p
value: 0.038). Question 10 and 14 were associated with olfactory dysfunction
after adjusting disease duration and gender (Question 10: p value: 0.011, OR:
3.91; Question 14: p value: 0.027, OR: 3.27).
CONCLUSIONS: Gastrointestinal, urinary and a part of cardiovascular symptoms of
SCOPA-AUT were associated with olfactory dysfunction in PD patients.

DOI: 10.1186/s12883-019-1243-4 
PMCID: PMC6359856
PMID: 30711006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation reduces spontaneous but not induced
negative thought intrusions in high worriers.

Worrying is a central component of anxiety disorders. We tested whether
non-invasive vagus nerve stimulation reduces negative thought intrusions in high 
worriers. Worry was assessed with a Breathing Focus Task, which consists of a
pre-worry period, a worry induction, and a post-worry period. Ninety-seven high
worriers were randomly allocated to receive transcutaneous electrical stimulation
of the auricular branch of the vagus nerve at the concha (tVNS), or of the
earlobe (sham stimulation) throughout the lab session. Participants who received 
tVNS reported significantly fewer negative thought intrusions during the
pre-worry period, but the effects of tVNS after the worry induction were mixed.
An exploratory analysis indicated that participants in the tVNS condition were
more likely to report negative thought intrusions shortly after the worry
induction, but became less likely to do so as the post-worry period went on. No
effects of tVNS on RMSSD were observed. These findings provide preliminary
indications that tVNS may decrease the occurrence of worrisome thoughts.



DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2019.01.014 
PMID: 30710565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Transcultural differences of psychologically traumatised children and
adolescents.

BACKGROUND: The symptoms following a traumatic event as well as the coping
strategies can be culture specific. The objective of the present study was to
analyse the transcultural differences of psychologically traumatized children and
adolescents with and without migration background.
METHODS: The medical files of 199 psychologically traumatized children and
adolescents (99 native Austrian, 100 Turkish-speaking) who were treated at the
Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry in Vienna were retrospectively
analysed.
RESULTS: The most frequently observed causes of trauma in patients with Turkish
migration background were intra-familial conflicts, forced separation from
parent(s), and conforming to a new environment. In native Austrian patients,
forced separation from parent(s) and divorce or separation of parents were the
leading causes of trauma. Trauma-related symptoms like changed mood, cognitive
and perceptual disturbance, social withdrawal, sleeping problems, somatisation
and behavioural problems were similarly observed in both groups; "sleeping
problems" were more often observed in Austrian patients, and "behavioural
problems" were more often observed in Turkish patients. More Austrian patients
(32.7%) obtained psychiatric and psychotherapeutic treatment. Turkish-speaking
patients mostly obtained psychiatric treatment only. Patients with migration
background were more compliant compared to indigenous patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Both study groups differed in type, causes and symptoms of trauma,
and in preferred therapy. Turkish-speaking patients were more compliant with
therapy, as they received culture and language-sensitive medical advice and
treatment in their mother tongue. Considering the cultural background of patients
can optimize service delivery and therapy outcomes among children and adolescents
with stressful and traumatic experiences.

DOI: 10.1007/s40211-019-0300-y 
PMCID: PMC6561986
PMID: 30707405  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Anxiolytic treatment but not anxiety itself causes hyponatremia among anxious
patients.

The aim of the study was to define whether anxiety itself or only the treatment
with anxiolytic medication is risk factor for hyponatremia and overhydration.A
case-control study of patients with a diagnosis of anxiety who received a
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Serum sodium, urea to creatinine
ratio, and odds ratio (OR) of hyponatremia and overhydration before initiation of
treatment were compared to those of a control group of participants. Laboratory
tests were also examined for changes following treatment with an SSRI. All blood 
tests were conducted from January 1, 2001 until December 31, 2017. Subjects were 
selected from a large electronic database, insuring 2 million Israelis. A total
of 7211 patients with a diagnosis of anxiety who have received a prescription for
an SSRI were identified; 3634 were excluded mostly due to other conditions that
could cause hyponatremia, and 3520 participants were included in the case group. 
The control group consisted of 6985 age and gender matched participants who did
not have a diagnosis of anxiety or any other exclusion criteria.Mean serum sodium
levels were elevated in cases before the initiation of SSRIs; sodium: case 139.3 
(137.3-141.3), control 139.2 (137.06-141.26) mmol/L (P = .01). The OR of
hyponatremia was 0.89 for the case group (P = .004). Treatment with SSRIs
decreased mean serum sodium (139.3-139.1 mmol/L; P = .0001) and increased by 50% 
the rate of hyponatremia (2.6-3.9% P = .024).It is the use of SSRIs and not
anxiety itself that causes hyponatremia among anxious patients.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000014334 
PMCID: PMC6380733
PMID: 30702618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Social anxiety disorder and memory for positive feedback.

Clinical theorists postulate that individuals with social anxiety disorder (SAD) 
display memory biases such that recall of social events becomes more negative
with time; however, alternative memory models have also been proposed. Research
has focused predominantly on selective recall of negative information with
inconsistent findings. The goal of the current study was to examine potential
biases in recall of positive social feedback. Individuals with SAD (n = 59) and
nonanxious community controls (n = 63) engaged in an unexpected public speaking
task and received standardized positive or neutral feedback on their speech.
Participants were asked to recall the feedback after 5 minutes and after 1 week. 
Results indicated that at delayed recall, individuals with SAD recalled positive 
feedback as less positive than it had been. The findings support cognitive models
of SAD and extend the model to positive social information. Research is needed to
understand the mechanisms that underlie fading positivity. (PsycINFO Database
Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/abn0000407 
PMID: 30702303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332.Correction of anxiety disorders: focus on a comorbid patient.

The exact cause of the development of anxiety disorders (AD) in present time has 
not been fully established and is a subject of debate in many countries. Interest
in studying the mechanisms of action of proteins of S100 group, in particular,
neurospecific protein S100b, is caused by its participation in processes of
integrative activity of brain/neuron and development of diseases of nervous
system. The functions of S100 proteins determine their influence on synaptic
plasticity and participation in the regulation of stress-realizing and
stress-limiting systems, the imbalance of which (primarily, the insufficiency of 
the GABA-ergic system) is the neurobiological basis of the majority of
anxiety-depressive pathologies. Preparations regulating the activity of S100
protein have a distinct clinical anti-anxiety effect and additionally contribute 
to the restoration of neuronal plasticity processes.

DOI: 10.26442/terarkh201890467-71 
PMID: 30701877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Clinical guidelines for the management of depression with specific comorbid
psychiatric conditions French recommendations from experts (the French
Association for Biological Psychiatry and Neuropsychopharmacology and the
fondation FondaMental).

BACKGROUND: Recommendations for pharmacological treatments of major depression
with specific comorbid psychiatric conditions are lacking.
METHOD: The French Association for Biological Psychiatry and
Neuropsychopharmacology and the fondation FondaMental developed expert consensus 
guidelines for the management of depression based on the RAND/UCLA
Appropriatneness Method. Recommendations for lines of treatment are provided by
the scientific committee after data analysis and interpretation of the results of
a survey of 36 psychiatrist experts in the field of major depression and its
treatments.
RESULTS: The expert guidelines combine scientific evidence and expert clinician's
opinion to produce recommendations for major depression with comorbid anxiety
disorders, personality disorders or substance use disorders and in geriatric
depression.
CONCLUSION: These guidelines provide direction addressing common clinical
dilemmas that arise in the pharmacologic treatment of major depression with
comorbid psychiatric conditions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-019-2025-7 
PMCID: PMC6354367
PMID: 30700272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Acute effects of aerobic exercise on negative affect and obsessions and
compulsions in individuals with obsessive-compulsive disorder.

BACKGROUND: The acute effects of aerobic exercise on improved mood and anxiety
reduction have been demonstrated across clinical and nonclinical populations.
Limited work has evaluated the acute effects of aerobic exercise on negative
affect, obsessions, and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive
Disorder (OCD).
METHOD: Fifty-five patients (64% female) with treatment-resistant OCD were
randomized to either 12 weeks of aerobic exercise (AE) or health education
contact (HEC) control. Participants rated negative affect (i.e., mood and
anxiety), obsessions and compulsions before and after each weekly AE or HEC
session. Multilevel models were constructed to evaluate the effect of
intervention condition, treatment week (time), and their interaction in terms of 
acute change in affect, obsession, and compulsions.
RESULTS: Results reflected a main effect of condition, such that AE resulted in
significantly larger increases in positive mood, and reductions in anxiety and
compulsions, as compared to HEC. There was also a main effect of time in
predicting acute anxiety reduction, such that linear reductions in anxiety over
the course of treatment were observed. No significant effects were observed for
acute changes in obsessions.
LIMITATIONS: The sample was small and was limited in demographic heterogeneity.
Bouts of aerobic exercise were not standardized in terms of duration and mode,
which could impact affective response to exercise, and acute affective OCD
effects were exclusively self-reported.
DISCUSSION: The current findings may help elucidate potential mechanisms of
action of exercise on OCD outcomes. In addition, these results point toward the
potential of designing exercise interventions that can teach patients to utilize 
individual bouts of physical activity, "in-the-moment" to improve mood and reduce
anxiety and compulsions.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.074 
PMID: 30699885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Prospective associations of androgens and sex hormone-binding globulin with
12-month, lifetime and incident anxiety and depressive disorders in men and women
from the general population.

BACKGROUND: Findings on associations of androgens and sex hormone-binding
globulin (SHBG) with anxiety and depressive disorders in the general population
remain inconclusive.
METHODS: We used data of n = 993 men and n = 980 women from the Study of Health
in Pomerania (SHIP, a prospective-longitudinal general population study from
northeastern Germany). Immunoassay-measured serum concentrations of total
testosterone, androstenedione and SHBG were assessed when participants were aged 
20-80. 12-month, lifetime and incident DSM-IV anxiety and depressive disorders
were assessed with the DIA-X/M-CIDI at 10-year follow-up, when participants were 
aged 29-89. Logistic regressions were adjusted for age, smoking, alcohol
consumption, physical activity, waist circumference, hypertension and oral
contraceptive use (women only) at baseline and follow-up interval.
RESULTS: In men and women, androgens and SHBG were not associated significantly
with incident anxiety and depressive disorders. In men, higher total testosterone
predicted any 12-month (OR = 1.46) and lifetime (OR = 1.34) anxiety disorder,
lifetime social phobia (OR = 2.15), and 12-month (OR = 1.48) and lifetime
(OR = 1.39) specific phobia, but neither 12-month nor lifetime depression.
Moreover, androstenedione in men interacted with age in predicting lifetime
anxiety disorders (OR = 0.98): Higher androstenedione more strongly predicted
lifetime anxiety in younger vs. older men. These findings, however, did not
survive correction for multiple testing. In women, androgens and SHBG were not
associated significantly with 12-month and lifetime anxiety and depressive
disorders.
LIMITATIONS: The follow-up period was relatively long and other factors might
have affected the examined associations.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher serum total testosterone in men and androstenedione in
younger men may relate to an increased risk of anxiety disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.052 
PMID: 30699875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Concordance of genetic variation that increases risk for anxiety disorders and
posttraumatic stress disorders and that influences their underlying
neurocircuitry.

BACKGROUND: There have been considerable recent advances in understanding the
genetic architecture of anxiety disorders and posttraumatic stress disorder
(PTSD), as well as the underlying neurocircuitry of these disorders. However,
there is little work on the concordance of genetic variations that increase risk 
for these conditions, and that influence subcortical brain structures. We
undertook a genome-wide investigation of the overlap between the genetic
influences from single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on volumes of subcortical 
brain structures and genetic risk for anxiety disorders and PTSD.
METHOD: We obtained summary statistics of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) 
of anxiety disorders (Ncases = 7016, Ncontrols = 14,745), PTSD (European sample; 
Ncases = 2424, Ncontrols = 7113) and of subcortical brain structures
(N = 13,171). SNP Effect Concordance Analysis (SECA) and Linkage Disequilibrium
(LD) Score Regression were used to examine genetic pleiotropy, concordance, and
genome-wide correlations respectively. SECAs conditional false discovery was used
to identify specific risk variants associated with anxiety disorders or PTSD when
conditioning on brain related traits.
RESULTS: For anxiety disorders, we found evidence of significant concordance
between increased anxiety risk variants and variants associated with smaller
amygdala volume. Further, by conditioning on brain volume GWAS, we identified
novel variants that associate with smaller brain volumes and increase risk for
disorders: rs56242606 was found to increase risk for anxiety disorders, while two
variants (rs6470292 and rs683250) increase risk for PTSD, when conditioning on
the GWAS of putamen volume.
LIMITATIONS: Despite using the largest available GWAS summary statistics, the
analyses were limited by sample size.
CONCLUSIONS: These preliminary data indicate that there is genome wide
concordance between genetic risk factors for anxiety disorders and those for
smaller amygdala volume, which is consistent with research that supports the
involvement of the amygdala in anxiety disorders. It is notable that a genetic
variant that contributes to both reduced putamen volume and PTSD plays a key role
in the glutamatergic system. Further work with GWAS summary statistics from
larger samples, and a more extensive look at the genetics underlying brain
circuits, is needed to fully delineate the genetic architecture of these
disorders and their underlying neurocircuitry.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.082 
PMCID: PMC6519055 [Available on 2020-02-15]
PMID: 30699873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Intrinsic brain abnormalities in drug-naive patients with obsessive-compulsive
disorder: A resting-state functional MRI study.

BACKGROUND: Using the resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging
(rs-fMRI) in a relatively large sample of drug-naive patients with
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), the current study aims to explore
alterations in regional and network-level neural function and to determine the
association between these alterations in intrinsic neural activity and symptom
severity in OCD.
METHODS: A total of 68 drug-naive OCD patients and 68 healthy control subjects
(HCS) were examined using rs-fMRI. Regional cerebral function was evaluated by
measuring the fraction of amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF). Regions
with fALFF alterations were used as seeds in whole-brain functional connectivity 
(FC) analysis. Statistical analyses of fALFF and FC differences between OCD
patients with HCS were performed voxel-by-voxel using a two-sample t-test in
Statistical Parametric Mapping version 8 (SPM8). Whole brain correlation analyses
were performed to identify the association between functional neural correlates
and OCD symptom severity evaluated using Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive scale
(Y-BOCS) and subscale scores.
RESULTS: Relative to HCS, OCD patients showed higher fALFF in the right putamen
and right superior frontal gyrus (P < 0.05, corrected for AlphaSim); higher FC in
the limbic-striatal circuit and lower FC in the fronto-temporal and
fronto-striato-thalamic networks (P < 0.05, corrected for AlphaSim). FC in
striato-thalamic junction was negatively correlated with the Y-BOCS total score
(r = -0.493, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: These findings of focal spontaneous hyperfunction confirmed the
prevailing frontal-striatal model of OCD, and altered brain connectivity in
large-scale resting-state networks indicated a connectivity-based
pathophysiological process in OCD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.080 
PMID: 30699871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Directionality of change in obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and suicidal
ideation over six years in a naturalistic clinical sample✰.

BACKGROUND: Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) is associated with elevated
suicide risk, but the directionality of the association between OCD severity and 
suicidal ideation has not been established, which was the goal of this study.
METHODS: Participants (n = 325) were adults with either a current or past
diagnosis of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition
(DSM-IV) OCD who were assessed annually for suicidal ideation and OCD symptom
severity for six years. Cross-lagged panel analyses statistically compared
unidirectional and bidirectional models over time. Serious suicide-related
adverse events were reported.
RESULTS: The best-fitting and most parsimonious model included paths predicting
suicidal ideation from OCD symptom severity, but not vice versa. These results
were confirmed by comparing a model with cross-lagged paths constrained equal to 
a freely estimated model. Higher OCD symptom severity in a given year was
associated with a higher suicidal ideation severity in the subsequent year. Five 
suicide-related adverse events were reported throughout the duration of the
study, including two suicide deaths and three suicide attempts.
LIMITATIONS: The study relied on a single-item, annual measure of suicidal
ideation in adults, with substantial variability in severity of suicide risk, and
missing data increased with later observations in the study.
DISCUSSION: OCD symptom severity predicted next year suicidal ideation severity. 
In contrast, suicidal ideation severity in a given year did not predict next-year
OCD symptom severity in this OCD sample. Thus, rather than waiting for suicidal
ideation to resolve, clinicians should consider providing empirically supported
treatments for OCD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.006 
PMCID: PMC6361538 [Available on 2020-02-15]
PMID: 30699868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339.Empirically-derived response trajectories of intensive residential treatment in
obsessive-compulsive disorder: A growth mixture modeling approach.

BACKGROUND: This study investigated distinct trajectories of treatment response
in a naturalistic intensive/residential treatment (IRT) program for adults with
severe obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). We hypothesized that: (1) distinct
trajectories would emerge and (2) demographic variables, psychiatric comorbidity,
OCD symptom subtype, level of insight, previous exposure and response prevention 
(ERP) treatment, and quality of life, would differentially predict assignment to 
these trajectories.
METHODS: Participants included 305 individuals with primary OCD admitted for IRT.
RESULTS: Two trajectories emerged over the course of the first eight weeks of
treatment, with the vast majority of participants demonstrating treatment
response. The first trajectory (96%, n = 292) showed a negative, linear treatment
response (a.k.a. "linear responders") and more severe OCD symptoms at admission. 
The second trajectory (4%, n = 13) had less severe OCD symptoms at admission and 
did not exhibit a significant overall change in symptoms over the course of
treatment. More specifically, this second trajectory or "u-shaped responders"
show a non-significant linear response through week four of treatment, followed
by slightly increased symptoms in week five. Assignment to these classes was not 
differentially predicted by hypothesized predictor variables.
LIMITATIONS: Our final model had inconsistent fit indices and small class
prevalance of the u-shaped responder group; therefore, model selection was based 
on both fit indices and substantive meaning.
CONCLUSIONS: This study emprically derived two distinct trajectories of OCD
symptom severity over the course of IRT. These findings have the potential to
refine IRT for patients with severe OCD, and to potentially guide future
investigation into the optimal delivery of ERP treatment for OCD generally.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.075 
PMID: 30699866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Negative peer social interactions and oxytocin levels linked to suicidal ideation
in anxious youth.

BACKGROUND: Anxious youth are at risk for negative peer interactions including
peer victimization, and for suicidal ideation. However, data about the pattern of
association between these two factors are scarce. In this study we examined the
association between negative peer interactions and suicidal ideation in a sample 
of children and adolescents with anxiety disorders, and whether oxytocin, which
has been shown to enhance the impact of social events, moderates the impact of
negative peer interactions on suicidal ideation.
METHOD: Participants were 168 youths with primary anxiety disorders. All
participants were assessed with semi-structured diagnostic interviews, and with
self-report measures of suicidal ideation, negative peer interactions, anxiety,
and depression. The anxious youths' salivary oxytocin levels were measured with
immunoassay.
RESULTS: Thirty percent of the anxious youths reported suicidal ideation, with
suicidal ideation severity associated with negative peer social interactions and 
depressive symptoms. Consistent with past data indicating that oxytocin enhances 
the impact of social events, the association between peer negative social
interactions and suicidal ideation was stronger in youths with high oxytocin
levels than in youths with low levels (i.e., moderation).
LIMITATIONS: Assessment focused on suicidal ideation and data on suicidal
behavior were not available. Limitations inherent to immunoassay measurement of
peripheral oxytocin levels are noted.
CONCLUSION: Negative peer interactions are associated with suicidal ideation in
youth with anxiety disorders, and the association is stronger in youth with high 
oxytocin levels.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.070 
PMCID: PMC6361537 [Available on 2020-02-15]
PMID: 30699863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. The effectiveness of four empirically supported psychotherapies for primary care 
depression and anxiety: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: Depressive and anxiety disorders are highly prevalent and detrimental
in primary care settings. However, there are gaps in the literature concerning
effectiveness and generalizability of empirically supported interventions and
treatment of both depression and anxiety in primary care settings. The aim of
this review is to systematically assess and meta-analyze the effectiveness of
brief empirically-supported psychotherapies for treating depression and/or
anxiety in primary care.
METHODS: Seven electronic databases, five professional websites and manual search
of reference lists were searched through April 2017 for randomized controlled
trials (RCTs) of four psychotherapies treating primary care depression and
anxiety: cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT), problem-solving therapy (PST),
motivational interviewing (MI), and solution-focused brief therapy (SFBT).
RESULTS: From an initial pool of 1140 articles, 179 articles were eligible for
full-text review and 65 articles were included for final analysis. Sixty-five
articles containing 198 effect sizes reported an overall treatment effect size of
d = 0.462, p < 0.001. Single-predictor meta-regression indicated that marital
status, treatment modality (individual versus group), and treatment composition
were significant moderators. Multiple-predictor meta-regression discovered
treatment setting (inside versus outside primary care) significantly moderated
treatment effect, b = -0.863, p = 0.039 after controlling for other intervention 
characteristics.
CONCLUSION: Treatment effects were found for CBT and PST, both for depressive and
anxiety disorders. Interventions delivered outside primary care settings were
more effective than those within, individual treatment had greater treatment
effects compared to group treatment, and both technology-assisted and in-person
treatments were found to be effective.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.008 
PMID: 30699860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Fear of cancer recurrence among breast cancer survivors could be controlled by
prudent dietary modification with polyunsaturated fatty acids.

BACKGROUND: The pathophysiology of fear of cancer recurrence (FCR), the leading
unmet psychological need of cancer survivors, may involve the dysfunctional
processing of fear memory. n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have
beneficial effects on psychiatric disorders, including depressive disorder and
anxiety disorders, and are involved in fear memory processing. We hypothesized
that n-3 PUFA composition is associated with FCR in cancer survivors.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study to examine the relationship between
n-3 PUFAs and FCR among breast cancer survivors. Adults who had been diagnosed
with invasive breast cancer and were not undergoing chemotherapy were asked to
participate. Blood PUFA composition was evaluated by using capillary blood. We
directly administered the Concerns About Recurrence Scale (CARS) to assess the
grade of FCR.
RESULTS: Among 126 participants used for the analysis, the mean age (SD) was 58
(11) years and 47% had stage I cancer. Multiple regression analysis controlling
for possible confounders, depressive symptoms, and post-traumatic stress disorder
(PTSD) symptoms revealed that the alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) level was
significantly inversely associated with the average score on the CARS overall
fear index (beta = -0.165, p = 0.04). No significant associations were found for 
other PUFAs.
LIMITATIONS: Our findings were obtained from a cross-sectional study in a single 
institute.
CONCLUSION: These findings provide the first evidence of a beneficial effect of
ALA on FCR and indicate the need for prospective study of this association. FCR
among breast cancer survivors might be controllable by prudent selection of
ALA-containing cooking oil.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.014 
PMID: 30699854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Anxiety and anhedonia in depression: Associations with neuroticism and cognitive 
control.

BACKGROUND: Despite the fact that higher levels of anxiety and anhedonia in Major
Depressive Disorder (MDD) are linked to poorer treatment outcomes, mechanisms
contributing to these clinical presentations remain unclear. Neuroticism,
impaired cognitive control, and blunted reward learning may be critical processes
involved in MDD and may help to explain symptoms of anxiety and anhedonia.
METHODS: Using baseline data from patients with early-onset MDD (N = 296) in the 
Establishing Moderators and Biosignatures of Antidepressant Response in Clinical 
Care (EMBARC) trial, we conducted a path analysis to model relationships between 
neuroticism, cognitive control, and reward learning to levels of anxiety and
anhedonia.
RESULTS: Neuroticism was positively associated with both anhedonia (standardized 
coefficient = 0.26, p < .001) and anxiety (standardized coefficient = 0.40,
p < .001). Cognitive control was negatively associated with anxiety (standardized
coefficient = -0.18, p < .05). Reward learning was not significantly associated
with either anxiety or anhedonia.
LIMITATIONS: Extraneous variables not included in the model may have even more
influence in explaining symptoms of anxiety and anhedonia. Restricted range in
these variables may have attenuated some of the hypothesized relationships. Most 
important, because this was a cross-sectional analysis in a currently depressed
sample, we cannot draw any causal conclusions without experimental and
longitudinal data.
CONCLUSIONS: These cross-sectional findings suggest that neuroticism may
contribute to anxiety and anhedonia in patients with early onset and either
chronic or recurrent MDD, while enhanced cognitive control may protect against
anxiety.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.072 
PMID: 30699849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Prevalence of common mental disorders in widowhood: A systematic review and
meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: Widowed people have a high risk of common mental disorders, however
no summary estimates of the prevalences exist. The aim of this study was to
conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of the prevalence of common mental 
disorders in widowed people in the community.
METHODS: MEDLINE, Embase and PsycInfo were searched for papers reporting on
prevalence of common mental disorders and widowhood. Eligible studies were
included in random effects meta-analyses of the prevalence of depression and
anxiety disorders. Subgroup analyses were performed on method of assessment of
depression and age and sex.
RESULTS: The literature search identified 13,781 titles of which 42 were eligible
for meta-analysis. The pooled prevalence of depression in studies using a
screening scale was 40.6% (33.6%-47.6%) (n = 30). For studies using full
diagnostic criteria the pooled prevalence of depression was 19.2% (13.4%-25.0%)
(n = 12). Subgroup analyses of age (≥ or < 65) and sex did not show any
differences regarding depression. Five studies reported the prevalence of anxiety
disorders. The pooled prevalence estimate was 26.9% (8.1%-45.7%).
LIMITATIONS: The prevalence estimates in this study are summary estimates of
prevalences from existing literature. Although the reporting bias assessment
showed no evidence, there could be some reporting bias, as studies might only
present results if there is a high prevalence.
CONCLUSIONS: Widowed people have a high prevalence of depression and anxiety
disorders. The high prevalence of depression was independent of age and sex. The 
study identifies a population group at high risk needing special attention in
clinical practice.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.088 
PMID: 30699843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Recognizing, diagnosing, and treating pediatric generalized anxiety disorder.

Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), characterized by excessive worry or
apprehension, can lead to significant distress or impairment in patients' social 
or occupational function but commonly is overlooked by primary care providers.
GAD and other anxiety disorders are among the most common mental health disorders
affecting children. Without treatment, children with GAD are at higher risk for
academic underperformance, substance abuse, other mental health disorders, and
poor outcomes in adulthood. This article reviews screening and assessment for GAD
in children and pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic recommendations for
management.

DOI: 10.1097/01.JAA.0000552719.98489.75 
PMID: 30699096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346.The Genetic and Environmental Relationship Between Childhood Behavioral
Inhibition and Preadolescent Anxiety.

This study uses novel approaches to examine genetic and environmental influences 
shared between childhood behavioral inhibition (BI) and symptoms of preadolescent
anxiety disorders. Three hundred and fifty-two twin pairs aged 9-13 and their
mothers completed questionnaires about BI and anxiety symptoms. Biometrical twin 
modeling, including a direction-of-causation design, investigated genetic and
environmental risk factors shared between BI and social, generalized, panic and
separation anxiety. Social anxiety shared the greatest proportion of genetic
(20%) and environmental (16%) variance with BI with tentative evidence for
causality. Etiological factors underlying BI explained little of the risk
associated with the other anxiety domains. Findings further clarify etiologic
pathways between BI and anxiety disorder domains in children.

DOI: 10.1017/thg.2018.73 
PMCID: PMC6449201
PMID: 30698127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Trypophobia, skin, and media.

Trypophobia is the fear of patterns of clustered holes, bumps, or nodules.
Trypophobia has a special relationship with dermatology because of its effects on
individuals with skin disease, its relationship with disease avoiding behavior,
and its utilization in many online skin disease hoaxes. Trypophobic patterns on
skin and characters can be found in movies, TV shows, and videogames. Several
popular horror villains take advantage of trypophobic patterns like Freddy
Kreuger, Jason Vorhees, and Pinhead. Most recently, another blockbuster villain
has joined their ranks - Killmonger. Public health messaging about these biases
and the often noncontagious nature of skin disease is warranted to attenuate
public stigma of skin disease perpetuated by media.


PMID: 30695985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348.Prospective associations of perceived unit cohesion with postdeployment mental
health outcomes.

BACKGROUND: Prior investigations have found negative associations between
military unit cohesion and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD); however, most
relied on cross-sectional data and few examined relationships of unit cohesion to
other mental disorders. This study evaluates prospective associations of
perceived unit cohesion with a range of mental health outcomes following combat
deployment.
METHODS: U.S. Army soldiers were surveyed approximately 1-2 months before
deployment to Afghanistan (T0); and 1 month (T1), 3 months (T2), and 9 months
(T3) after return from deployment. Logistic regression was performed to estimate 
associations of perceived unit cohesion at T0 with risk of PTSD, major depressive
episode (MDE), generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), alcohol or substance use
disorder (AUD/SUD), and suicidal ideation at T2 or T3 among soldiers who
completed all study assessments (N = 4,645). Models were adjusted for
sociodemographic and Army service characteristics, predeployment history of the
index outcome, and deployment stress exposure.
RESULTS: Higher perceived unit cohesion at T0 was associated with lower risk of
PTSD, MDE, GAD, AUD/SUD, and suicidal ideation at T2 or T3 (AORs = 0.72 to 0.85
per standard score increase in unit cohesion; P-values < 0.05). Models of
incidence of mental disorders and suicidal ideation among soldiers without these 
problems predeployment yielded similar results, except that perceived unit
cohesion was not associated with incident AUD/SUD.
CONCLUSIONS: Soldiers who reported strong unit cohesion before deployment had
lower risk of postdeployment mental disorders and suicidal ideation. Awareness of
associations of perceived unit cohesion with postdeployment mental health may
facilitate targeting of prevention programs.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22884 
PMID: 30694009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349.Effectiveness of a self-management training for patients with chronic and
treatment resistant anxiety or depressive disorders on quality of life, symptoms,
and empowerment: results of a randomized controlled trial.

BACKGROUND: Anxiety and depressive disorders are common mental disorders. A
substantial part of patients does not achieve symptomatic remission after
treatment in specialized services. Current care as usual (CAU) for these patients
consists of long-term supportive contacts. Termination of CAU is often not
considered to be an option due to persistent symptoms, a low level of
functioning, and the absence of further treatment options. A new intervention,
ZemCAD, offers a program focused on rehabilitation and self-management, followed 
by referral back to primary care.
METHODS: This multicenter randomized controlled trial was carried out in twelve
specialized outpatient mental health care services in the Netherlands. Consenting
and eligible patients were invited for the MINI interview and the baseline
questionnaire. Assessments were done at 6 (T1), 12 (T2) and 18 (T3) months post
baseline. We used linear mixed model analysis (LMM) to ascertain the
effectiveness of the ZemCAD group relative to the CAU group on quality of life,
symptom severity and empowerment.
RESULTS: In total 141 patients were included. The results at 18-month follow-up
regarding to quality of life and symptom severity, showed no significant
differences between the ZemCAD group and the CAU group, except on the 'social
relationships'-domain (d = 0.37). With regard to empowerment a significant
difference between both groups was observed in the total empowerment score and
one empowerment dimension (d = 0.45 and d = 0.39, respectively). After the ZemCAD
intervention, more patients went from specialized outpatient mental health
services back to a less specialized health care setting with less intensive
treatment, such as primary care.
CONCLUSION: The findings in this study suggest that patients with chronic and
treatment-resistant anxiety and depression using the ZemCAD intervention improve 
on empowerment but not on symptom severity or quality of life. Since little is
known about the effects of rehabilitation and self-management in patients with
chronic and treatment resistant anxiety and depressive disorders, this is a first
attempt to provide a proof-of-concept study in this under-researched but
important field.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register: NTR3335 , registered 7 March
2012.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-019-2013-y 
PMCID: PMC6348638
PMID: 30691421  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350.Trajectories of maternal distress and risk of child developmental delays:
Findings from the All Our Families (AOF) pregnancy cohort.

BACKGROUND: Existing literature on the impact of the course of maternal distress 
symptoms in the perinatal period and beyond has mainly focused on one source of
distress (e.g., anxiety or depression) and only selected aspects of child
development. This study examined the relative impact of trajectories of maternal 
depression, anxiety, and stress symptoms from mid-pregnancy to early childhood on
child communication, gross motor, fine motor, problem solving, and personal
social development at three years of age.
METHODS: Data were analyzed from 1983 mother-child dyads who participated in the 
three-year follow-up of the All Our Families (AOF) study. Maternal distress and
child development across five domains were measured using validated tools. Latent
class analysis (LCA) was conducted to identify trajectories of maternal distress 
over time. Multivariable logistic regression was used to explore the relationship
between the trajectories and child development while adjusting for the
covariates.
RESULTS: At age three years, 5.2% of children were at risk communication delay;
12.7% for gross motor delay; 15.4% for fine motor delay; 11.2 for problem solving
delay; and 5.6% for personal-social delay on ASQ-3 domains. Multivariable
analysis showed children born to mothers with persistent high anxiety symptoms
from pregnancy to 3-years postpartum had an increased risk of delays in
communication and personal-social domains.
LIMITATIONS: The use of self-reported maternal mental health symptoms and
maternal reported child development are the study limitations.
CONCLUSIONS: The impact of high levels of maternal anxiety symptoms on the
increased risk of child developmental delay in communication and personal-social 
domains highlights the importance of early intervention and addressing maternal
anxiety from pregnancy through early childhood.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.132 
PMID: 30690110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351.Disgust assessment: Factorial structure and psychometric properties of the French
version of the Disgust Propension and Sensibility Scale Revised-12.

The present study examined the internal and external validity of the French
version of the 12-item Disgust Propensity and Sensitivity Scale-Revised (DPSS-12)
in a nonclinical sample from the general population. Two hundred and eighty-two
participants completed the DPSSf-12 questionnaire as well as the Anxiety
Sensitivity Index (ASI), Anxiety Trait (STAI B), Obsessional Belief Questionnaire
44 items (OBQ 44), Obsessive Compulsive Inventory-Revised (OCI-R) and Positive
and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS). Confirmatory Factor Analysis supported a
2-factor structure after two sensitivity items were removed. The 10-item scale
showed good internal consistency, construct validity and test-retest reliability.
These adequate psychometric properties make the DPSSf-10 appropriate for use by
researchers and practitioners.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0210639 
PMCID: PMC6349310
PMID: 30689643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352.The concreteness effect of word processing for highly neurotic individuals: an
event-related potential study.

A number of studies have found a concreteness effect and an abstractness effect
in word processing. The triple-component hypothesis proposed that the emotional
aspect of words, such as the valence of words, contributes to the abstractness
effect. Although there is no direct evidence for the role of affective
characteristics of individuals in the abstractness effect, some studies have
found a negative bias of highly neurotic individuals. The current study was
designed to examine the abstractness effect of words for individuals who were
highly neurotic. The event-related potential results showed that highly neurotic 
individuals exhibited an abstractness effect for negative words on the P300,
which was evoked by emotion information, and a concreteness effect for negative
words on the N400, which was activated by semantic processing. These results are 
discussed from the perspective of triple-component hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000001201 
PMID: 30688758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353.Effectiveness of eHealth Interventions to Reduce Perinatal Anxiety: A Systematic 
Review and Meta-Analysis.

Objective: eHealth interventions have been shown to be effective in improving
anxiety among the general population. Despite the effectiveness of eHealth
interventions for perinatal depression, a recent review reported mixed results
for perinatal anxiety. The review, however, was not focused on anxiety, and
studies with various designs were included. The aim of this systematic review is 
to summarize the evidence specific to anxiety and to conduct a meta-analysis to
examine the effectiveness of eHealth interventions in reducing perinatal anxiety.
Data Sources: MEDLINE, CINAHL, EMBASE, and PsycINFO were searched beginning with 
the date that the databases were available through March 2018 using keywords such
as perinatal period, web-based interventions, and anxiety.
Study Selection: Randomized controlled trials that were conducted during the
perinatal period, examined the effectiveness of an eHealth mental health
intervention, measured anxiety symptoms or disorders as a primary or secondary
outcome, provided data on anxiety levels both pre-intervention and
post-intervention, had a comparison group, and were published in English were
included. A total of 770 articles were retrieved, and the full texts of 64
articles were reviewed. Five studies met the inclusion criteria, 4 of which
fulfilled the quality criteria and were included in the meta-analysis.
Data Extraction: Data were extracted using a data extraction form developed for
this study. The Cochrane Collaboration's Review Manager software was used to
conduct the meta-analysis.
Results: The test for heterogeneity (I² = 0%; P = .80) suggested a homogeneous
sample. The meta-analysis for the total effect size showed that at
post-intervention, the eHealth group had significantly lower anxiety scores than 
the control group, with a standardized mean difference of -0.41 (95% CI, -0.71 to
-0.11; P = .007).
Conclusions: eHealth interventions are promising in improving perinatal anxiety. 
The content of these interventions should account for common comorbid mental
health conditions during the perinatal period and provide opportunities to tailor
further treatment if necessary.



DOI: 10.4088/JCP.18r12386 
PMID: 30688418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354.Fears and fear-related cognitions in children with selective mutism.

Selective mutism (SM) is classified under the category of anxiety disorders in
DSM-5 [1], although concrete fears that underlie the condition are not specified 
contrary to all other anxiety disorders. Given the lack of studies systematically
investigating fears in SM, content and frequency of concrete fears as well as
related cognitions have remained unclear so far. One hundred and twenty-four
participants [M = 13.25 years (SD = 3.24), range 8-18 years] with SM (n = 65),
social phobia (SP n = 18) or with typical development (TD n = 51) took part in an
online survey. Participants with SM (n = 65) answered an open-ended question
concerning fears that might cause the consistent failure to speak in select
situations. Additionally, participants with SM, SP and TD completed a survey
containing 34 fear-related cognitions that might occur in speech-demanding
situations. Open text answers were systematically evaluated by extracting
higher-order categories using a Qualitative Content Analysis. Single item scores 
of the survey were compared between the three groups. 59% of all spontaneously
reported fears were assigned to the cluster of social fears. Other reported fears
represented the categories fear of mistakes (28%), language-related fears (8%)
and voice-related fears (5%). The SM- and SP group only differed regarding the
cognition that one's own voice might sound funny (SM > SP). Social fears and the 
fear of mistakes account for the majority of fears in SM. Therefore, future
interventions should consider specifically targeting these types of fears.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-019-01281-0 
PMID: 30684088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355.Fear of disease progression in adult ambulatory patients with brain cancer:
prevalence and clinical correlates.

BACKGROUND: Fear of progression (FoP) is frequent in patients with cancer and of 
high clinical relevance. Despite the often devastating prognosis of brain cancer,
FoP has not yet been assessed in neurooncological patients.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was thus the assessment of FoP and its clinical 
correlates.
METHODS: In an ambulatory setting, 42 patients with a primary brain tumour
completed the Fear of Progression questionnaire FoP-Q-12. Clinical correlates of 
FoP were assessed via a variety of measures, including patients' physical state
(Karnofsky Performance Status, KPS), cancer-related psychosocial distress
(Distress Thermometer, DT), anxiety (General Anxiety Disorder Scale, GAD-7),
depression (Patient Health Questionnaire, PHQ-9), Quality of Life (Short Form
Health Survey, SF-8), and unmet supportive care needs (Supportive Care Needs
Survey, SCNS).
RESULTS: Eighteen patients (42%) suffered from high FoP (i.e. scored ≥ 34 in the 
FoP-Q-12). According to the 12 items of the FoP-Q-12, the greatest fears were
worrying about what would happen to their family and being afraid of severe
medical treatments. No sociodemographic variables (e.g. age, gender) or medical
tumour characteristics (e.g. tumour malignancy, first or recurrent tumour) were
related to FoP. Patients with more severe physical symptoms reported higher FoP. 
Patients with higher FoP were more anxious, more depressed, reported lower
Quality of Life, and suffered from more unmet supportive care needs.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that FoP is frequent and of high clinical
relevance for neurooncological patients. Its assessment is not sufficiently
covered by instruments for assessment of other areas of psychological morbidity
(e.g. general anxiety). Moreover, FoP cannot be predicted by objective
characteristics of the patients and disease. Thus, the routine screening for FoP 
is recommended in neurooncological patients. Clinicians should bear in mind that 
patients with high FoP are likely to suffer from high emotional distress and
unmet supportive care needs and initiate treatment accordingly.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-019-04665-9 
PMID: 30684045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356.What are Clients Asking Their Therapist During Therapist-Assisted
Internet-Delivered Cognitive Behaviour Therapy? A Content Analysis of Client
Questions.

BACKGROUND: Although internet-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy (ICBT) yields
large clinical outcomes when accompanied by therapeutic support, a portion of
clients do not benefit from treatment. In ICBT, clients review treatment
materials online typically on a weekly basis. A key component of
therapist-assistance involves answering questions as clients review and work on
assignments related to the treatment materials.
AIMS: The goal of this study was to enhance understanding of the nature of client
questions posed during ICBT and examine potential associations between the number
of questions asked and treatment outcomes in order to provide insight into how to
improve ICBT for future users.
METHOD: Content analysis was used to qualitatively analyse and identify questions
that 80 clients asked their designated therapist over the course of an 8-week
ICBT programme for anxiety and depression.
RESULTS: On average, clients sent six emails during the course of treatment, of
which less than two questions were asked. Of the 137 questions posed by clients, 
46.72% reflected questions designed to enhance understanding and apply the
material and techniques reviewed in the programme. Additional questions were
categorized as clarifying the therapeutic process (22.62%), addressing technical 
challenges (18.25%), and seeking assistance with problems outside the scope of
ICBT (12.41%). Number of client questions asked was not significantly correlated 
with the number of lessons completed, symptom change, or perceptions of
therapeutic alliance.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings can inform future practitioners who deliver ICBT of what to
expect with this treatment approach and also assist in the development of future 
ICBT programmes.

DOI: 10.1017/S1352465818000668 
PMID: 30683160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Buspirone for the treatment of anxiety-related symptoms in Angelman syndrome: a
case series.

OBJECTIVES: Angelman syndrome (AS) is a neurogenetic disorder associated with
impaired expression of the ubiquitin-protein ligase E3A gene on chromosome 15. AS
results in intellectual disability with limited expressive language, epilepsy,
ataxia, sleep impairment, and problematic behavior which may include anxiety.
Buspirone is a serotonin (5-HT)1A receptor partial agonist used in the treatment 
of anxiety disorders and may, therefore, have a treatment role for patients with 
AS.
METHODS: We describe three patients who were given open-label buspirone for the
treatment of behaviors thought to be related to anxiety.
RESULTS: We found significant improvement in symptoms of anxiety with buspirone. 
Patients tolerated long-term usage of the medication.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this study suggest that buspirone may be effective
for the amelioration of behaviors related to anxiety in patients with AS, and
well tolerated. Limitations include the open-label nature of these treatments,
the small sample size and the absence of a control group.

DOI: 10.1097/YPG.0000000000000218 
PMID: 30681431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Differentiating PTSD from anxiety and depression: Lessons from the ICD-11 PTSD
diagnostic criteria.

OBJECTIVE: Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is frequently associated with
depression and anxiety, but the nature of the relationship is unclear. By
removing mood and anxiety diagnostic criteria, the 11th edition of the
International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11) aims to delineate a distinct
PTSD phenotype. We examined the effect of implementing ICD-11 criteria on rates
of codiagnosed depression and anxiety in survivors with recent PTSD.
METHOD: Participants were 1,061 survivors of traumatic injury admitted to acute
care centers in Israel. ICD-10 and ICD-11 diagnostic rules were applied to the
Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-IV. Co-occurring disorders were
identified using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID). Depression 
severity was measured by the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II). Assessments
were performed 0-60 ("wave 1") and 90-240 ("wave 2") days after trauma exposure.
RESULTS: Participants identified by ICD-11 PTSD criteria were equally or more
likely than those identified by the ICD-10 alone to meet depression or anxiety
disorder diagnostic criteria (for wave 1: depressive disorders, OR [odds
ratio] = 1.98, 95% CI [confidence interval] = [1.36, 2.87]; anxiety disorders,
OR = 1.04, 95% CI = [0.67, 1.64]; for wave 2: depressive disorders, OR = 1.70,
95% CI = [1.00, 2.91]; anxiety disorders, OR = 1.04, 95% CI = [0.54, 2.01]).
ICD-11 PTSD was associated with higher BDI scores (M = 23.15 vs. 17.93, P < 0.001
for wave 1; M = 23.93 vs. 17.94, P < 0.001 for wave 2). PTSD symptom severity
accounted for the higher levels of depression in ICD-11 PTSD.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite excluding depression and anxiety symptom criteria, the
ICD-11 identified equal or higher proportion of depression and anxiety disorders,
suggesting that those are inherently associated with PTSD.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22881 
PMCID: PMC6548615 [Available on 2020-06-01]
PMID: 30681235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359.Comparative effectiveness of neuroablation and deep brain stimulation for
treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder: a meta-analytic study.

BACKGROUND: The safety and efficacy of neuroablation (ABL) and deep brain
stimulation (DBS) for treatment refractory obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
has not been examined. This study sought to generate a definitive comparative
effectiveness model of these therapies.
METHODS: A EMBASE/PubMed search of English-language, peer-reviewed articles
reporting ABL and DBS for OCD was performed in January 2018. Change in quality of
life (QOL) was quantified based on the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale
(Y-BOCS) and the impact of complications on QOL was assessed. Mean response of
Y-BOCS was determined using random-effects, inverse-variance weighted
meta-analysis of observational data.
FINDINGS: Across 56 studies, totalling 681 cases (367 ABL; 314 DBS), ABL
exhibited greater overall utility than DBS. Pooled ability to reduce Y-BOCS
scores was 50.4% (±22.7%) for ABL and was 40.9% (±13.7%) for DBS. Meta-regression
revealed no significant change in per cent improvement in Y-BOCS scores over the 
length of follow-up for either ABL or DBS. Adverse events occurred in 43.6%
(±4.2%) of ABL cases and 64.6% (±4.1%) of DBS cases (p<0.001). Complications
reduced ABL utility by 72.6% (±4.0%) and DBS utility by 71.7% (±4.3%). ABL
utility (0.189±0.03) was superior to DBS (0.167±0.04) (p<0.001).
INTERPRETATION: Overall, ABL utility was greater than DBS, with ABL showing a
greater per cent improvement in Y-BOCS than DBS. These findings help guide
success thresholds in future clinical trials for treatment refractory OCD.




DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2018-319318 
PMID: 30679237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

360. Applying attachment theory to indecisiveness in hoarding disorder.

Research shows that individuals who experience distress when discarding their
possessions are more indecisive than individuals who do not experience such
difficulty. These individuals report more intense emotional responses and greater
intolerance to distress when faced with a discarding task. The aim of this study 
was to determine whether an insecure attachment style contributes to
indecisiveness among individuals with discarding difficulties and whether this
association is mediated by emotional reactivity and distress intolerance. This
study used a within-group cross-sectional design. One hundred fifty-six
participants with clinically significant discarding problems (82.7% female; Mean 
age = 21.96, SD = 7.38) from a population of university students and community
members completed self-report questionnaires that assessed severity of hoarding
behaviours, insecure attachment styles, emotional reactivity, distress
intolerance, and indecisiveness. Analyses revealed that an anxious attachment
style was associated with greater indecisiveness, and this relationship was
mediated by emotional reactivity, but not distress intolerance. Furthermore,
avoidant attachment was not related to indecisiveness. Clinical interventions
should consider the role of attachment styles in hoarding disorder and address
emotional reactivity difficulties in treatment through the use of discarding
exposures, as emotion plays an important role in these decision-making processes.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2019.01.055 
PMID: 30677721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Enhanced activity of pyramidal neurons in the infralimbic cortex drives anxiety
behavior.

We show that in an animal model of anxiety the overall excitation, particularly
in the infralimbic region of the medial prefrontal cortex (IL), is increased and 
that the activity ratio between excitatory pyramidal neurons and inhibitory
interneurons (AR PN/IN) is shifted towards excitation. The same change in AR
PN/IN is evident for wildtype mice, which have been exposed to an anxiety
stimulus. We hypothesize, that an elevated activity and the imbalance of
excitation (PN) and inhibition (IN) within the neuronal microcircuitry of the
prefrontal cortex is responsible for anxiety behaviour and employed optogenetic
methods in freely moving mice to verify our findings. Consistent with our
hypothesis elevation of pyramidal neuron activity in the infralimbic region of
the prefrontal cortex significantly enhanced anxiety levels in several
behavioural tasks by shifting the AR PN/IN to excitation, without affecting motor
behaviour, thus revealing a novel mechanism by which anxiety is facilitated.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0210949 
PMCID: PMC6345483
PMID: 30677060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Neuropsychiatric symptoms following sore throat in a young boy.

A previously healthy 6-year-old boy was referred to us by his primary provider,
with a history of sudden onset behavioural abnormalities including irritability, 
sleep disturbance and anxiety. Physical examination revealed no significant
findings; further analyses were not suggestive of meningitis, encephalitis,
metabolic abnormalities, toxicity or any other obvious cause. On rechecking the
patient's history, an episode of throat pain 1 week prior to the symptom onset
was noted. Therefore, the possibility of paediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric
disorders associated with streptococcal infections (PANDAS) was considered. The
antistreptolysin O titre was high (1078 IU/mL), and it increased to 1194 IU/mL 4 
weeks later, leading to a diagnosis of PANDAS. He was started on ampicillin and
administered one dose of intravenous immunoglobulin. His abnormal behaviours
subsided and he returned to a normal state within 48 hours of treatment. This
report aims to provide insights into the symptomology and diagnosis of PANDAS in 
children.




DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2018-227540 
PMID: 30674494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]



363. On the Identifiability of Diagnostic Classification Models.

This paper establishes fundamental results for statistical analysis based on
diagnostic classification models (DCMs). The results are developed at a high
level of generality and are applicable to essentially all diagnostic
classification models. In particular, we establish identifiability results for
various modeling parameters, notably item response probabilities, attribute
distribution, and Q-matrix-induced partial information structure. These results
are stated under a general setting of latent class models. Through a
nonparametric Bayes approach, we construct an estimator that can be shown to be
consistent when the identifiability conditions are satisfied. Simulation results 
show that these estimators perform well under various model settings. We also
apply the proposed method to a dataset from the National Epidemiological Survey
on Alcohol and Related Conditions (NESARC).

DOI: 10.1007/s11336-018-09658-x 
PMID: 30673967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Psychiatric disorders in children and adolescents: Prevalence and
sociodemographic correlates in Semnan Province in Iran.

AIM: The aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence of psychiatric
disorders and sociodemographic correlates in children and adolescents ages
6-18 years in semnan province.
METHOD: Participants were 1037 children and adolescents ages 6 to 18 years in
Semnan. This study was a survey study and its data have been taken from the
National survey of Iranian Children and Adolescents' Psychiatric Disorders in
2017. A sample of children and adolescents from Semnan was selected by multistage
cluster sampling method. Participants completed the K- SADS- PL interview.
RESULTS: Findings showed the general prevalence of psychiatric disorders in
Semnan was 24.8 (CI95%: 22.2-27.5) with a proportion of female to male 1.1:1. As 
the age increased, the prevalence rate of psychiatric disorders decreased. In
mothers with undergraduate education, the rate of prevalence of psychiatric
disorders in children and adolescents was significantly lower than that of
illiterate mothers (OR adjust = 0.309, p = .01). Among anxiety disorders, the
highest rate of prevalence was related to Separation Anxiety Disorder (6.4%;
CI95%: 5.03-8.01). Oppositional Defiant Disorder (4%; CI95%: 2.9-5.3) and
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (3.4%; CI95%: 2.4-4.7) had the highest
rate of prevalence among behavioral disorders. Sex, Locus of life, socioeconomic 
status had no effect on the prevalence rate.
CONCLUSION: The disorders prevalence was higher than the previous prevalence that
reported in Iran. Anxiety disorders are the most common disorders. The results
showed that psychiatric disorders of the children and adolescents were not
different in terms of sociodemograhic factors in Semnan.



DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2019.01.007 
PMID: 30673624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Personalized striatal targets for deep brain stimulation in obsessive-compulsive 
disorder.

BACKGROUND: Psychiatric conditions currently treated with deep brain stimulation 
(DBS), such as obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), are heterogeneous diseases
with different symptomatic dimensions, indicating that fixed neuroanatomical DBS 
targets for all OCD cases may not be efficacious.
OBJECTIVE/HYPOTHESIS: We tested whether the optimal DBS target for OCD is fixed
for all patients or whether it is individualized and related to each patient's
symptomatic content. Further, we explored if the optimal target can be predicted 
by combining functional neuroimaging and structural connectivity.
METHODS: In a prospective, randomized, double-blinded study in 7 OCD patients,
symptomatic content was characterized pre-operatively by clinical interview and
OCD symptom-provocation during functional MRI. DBS electrode implantation
followed a trajectory placing 4 contacts along a striatal axis (nucleus accumbens
to caudate). Patients underwent three-month stimulation periods for each contact 
(and sham), followed by clinical evaluation. Probabilistic tractography, applied 
to diffusion-weighted images acquired pre-operatively, was used to study the
overlap between projections from the prefrontal areas activated during symptom
provocation and the volume of activated tissue of each electrode contact.
RESULTS: Six patients were classified responders, with median symptomatic
reduction of 50% achieved from each patient's best contact. This was located at
the caudate in 4 cases and at the accumbens in 2. Critically, the anatomical
locus of the best contact (accumbens or caudate) was related to an index derived 
by combining functional MRI responses to prevailing symptom provocation and
prefronto-cortico-striatal projections defined by probabilistic tractography.
CONCLUSION: Our results therefore represent a step towards personalized,
content-specific DBS targets for OCD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2018.12.226 
PMID: 30670359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. A review of N-acetylcysteine in the treatment of grooming disorders.

BACKGROUND: Pathologic grooming disorders can lead to clinically significant
distress and functional impairment. Studies on treatment of these disorders with 
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and anticonvulsants have led to
inconsistent findings. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has shown promise in treatment of
obsessive-compulsive and related disorders. The objective of this article is to
perform an updated review of NAC in the treatment of grooming disorders.
METHODS: PubMed was searched from inception to October 2017 to identify
literature on the use of NAC in the management of trichotillomania, onychophagia,
and pathological skin picking. Case reports, case series, and randomized
controlled trials were included. Data on study design, dosing regimens,
comorbidities, concurrent treatment, and side effects were extracted from the
included articles.
RESULTS: Fifteen articles were included in this review, which consisted of 10
case reports, one case series, and four randomized controlled trials. Dosing of
oral NAC ranged from 450 to 2,400 mg per day, and treatment periods lasted from 1
to 8 months. Side effects were uncommon, mild, and usually gastrointestinal in
nature, with severe aggression reported in one child.
CONCLUSIONS: While there are multiple reports of the safety and efficacy of NAC
in the treatment of grooming disorders, there are currently few randomized
controlled trials on this topic, and more research is needed to develop a formal 
treatment algorithm. While current data should be considered very preliminary,
case reports have demonstrated mostly positive results and a lack of significant 
side effects. A trial of NAC may be a viable option for pathologic grooming
disorders, especially in patients who have failed prior psychologic or
pharmacologic treatment.



DOI: 10.1111/ijd.14371 
PMID: 30667049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Glutamate transporter gene polymorphisms and obsessive-compulsive disorder: A
case-control association study.

The etiology of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is largely unknown, but
family, twin, neuroimaging, and pharmacological studies suggest that
glutamatergic system plays a significant role on its underlying pathophysiology. 
We performed an association analysis of six Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms
(SNPs) within SLC1A1 gene (rs12682807, rs2075627, rs3780412, rs301443, rs301430, 
rs301434) in a group of 199 patients and 200 healthy controls. Symptom profiles
were evaluated using the Florida Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory (FOCI) and the
Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory-Revised (OCI-R). SNPs were analyzed by Taqman®
methodology (Thermo Fisher, Brazil). The genotype distributions were in
Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The A-A-G (rs301434-rs3780412-rs301443) haplotype was
twice as common in OCD as in controls (P = 0.02). We also found significant
differences between male patients and controls for rs301443 in a dominant model
(P = 0.04) and a protective effect of GG genotype of rs2072657 in women
(P = 0.02). Regarding clinical characteristics, the G-A (rs301434-rs3780412)
haplotype was almost twice more common in patients with vs. without hoarding
(P = 0.04). Further analyses showed significant associations between hoarding and
rs301434 (P = 0.04) and rs3780412 (P = 0.04) in women, both in a dominant model. 
A dominant effect was also observed on ordering dimension for rs301434 (P = 0.01,
in women) and rs301443 (P = 0.04). Finally, the rs2072657 showed a recessive
effect on neutralization (P = 0.04) and checking (P = 0.03, in men). These
preliminary results demonstrated that the SLC1A1 may contribute to some extent
the susceptibility to OCD and its symptoms. However, additional studies are still
needed.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2019.01.009 
PMID: 30661718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. What Drives OCD Symptom Change During CBT Treatment? Temporal Relationships Among
Obsessions and Compulsions.

Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) is an effective treatment for
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). However, less is known about how obsessions 
and compulsions change during treatment, either in tandem, sequentially, or
independently. The current study used latent difference score analysis to show
path-analytic dynamic modeling of OCD symptom change during CBT. Four competing
models of the temporal relationship between obsessions and compulsions were
examined: no coupling (obsessions and compulsions are not dynamically related),
goal directed (obsessions lead to subsequent changes in compulsions), habit
driven (compulsions lead to subsequent changes in obsessions), and reciprocal.
Treatment seeking participants (N = 84) with a principal diagnosis of OCD
completed 12 weeks of CBT group therapy and completed measures assessing
obsession and compulsion severity at pretreatment, Sessions 4 and 8, and end of
treatment. Bivariate results supported the goal directed traditional CBT model,
where obsession scores are temporally associated with subsequent changes in
compulsion scores. These results have implications for theoretical and treatment 
modelling of obsessions and compulsions in OCD treatment.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.03.012 
PMID: 30661569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. The Links Between Social Anxiety Disorder, Insomnia Symptoms, and Alcohol Use
Disorders: Findings From a Large Sample of Adolescents in the United States.

Social anxiety disorder (SAD) is associated with increased risk of developing an 
alcohol use disorder (AUD). Most of the current literature has focused on the
role of acute stress responding in this relation; however, both SAD and AUDs also
are linked to insomnia symptoms (i.e., difficulty falling or staying asleep). As 
adolescence is a sensitive period for the onset of these disorders, the present
study examined if insomnia symptoms might partially account for the SAD-AUD link 
in a large sample of adolescents. Data from the National Comorbidity
Survey-Adolescent Supplement were examined. Participants (N = 10,140) completed
interviews to assess past 12-month SAD and AUD diagnostic status as well as
insomnia symptoms. Analyses tested whether insomnia symptoms accounted for a
significant proportion of the SAD-AUD relation. Results indicated that insomnia
symptoms were positively related to both SAD and AUD status, and the relation
between SAD and AUD status was significantly reduced when insomnia symptoms were 
included in the model. Findings remained significant after controlling for the
effects of age, gender, posttraumatic stress disorder, major depressive disorder,
and other drug dependence status. Experimental examination and intensive
longitudinal assessment of these relationships are needed before strong
conclusions can be inferred about causality and temporal relationships. The
current findings do indicate insomnia may be an important indirect and
stigma-free treatment target to address in prevention and treatment efforts for
SAD, AUDs, and their co-occurrence.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.03.010 
PMID: 30661566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370.Social Anxiety Disorder and Perceived Criticism in Intimate Relationships:
Comparisons With Normal and Clinical Control Groups.

Individuals with social anxiety disorder (SAD) have difficulties in their
romantic relationships, including decreased satisfaction and intimacy, but the
reasons for these difficulties are poorly understood. Because fear of negative
evaluation is a cardinal feature of SAD, perceived criticism from a romantic
partner may play a central role in socially anxious individuals' relationships.
In the present study, we compared levels of perceived, expressed, and observed
criticism and reactions to criticism among individuals with SAD and their
partners (n = 21), individuals with other anxiety disorders and their partners (n
= 35), and couples free of psychopathology (n = 30). Participants rated both
global criticism and criticism during a 10-minute problem-solving task, which was
also coded for criticism by observers. Individuals with anxiety disorders showed 
elevated levels of interaction-specific perceived criticism, expressed criticism,
and upset and stress due to criticism relative to normal controls; they also
reported that the interaction was more stressful. However, there were no group
differences on global measures of criticism, and the two anxious groups did not
differ on any measures. Findings suggest that the high levels of criticism
anxious individuals perceive and their corresponding negative reactions to
criticism, though not specific to SAD, may account for some of the relationship
difficulties that have been identified in SAD. Results also indicate that anxious
individuals may contribute to their relationship difficulties by being highly
critical themselves. Overall, our findings point to the need for a clinical focus
on decreasing perceived criticism among individuals with anxiety disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.05.005 
PMID: 30661563  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Does Exposure and Response Prevention Behaviorally Activate Patients With
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder? A Preliminary Test.

Exposure and response prevention (ERP) and behavioral activation (BA) are
effective treatments for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and depression,
respectively. Patients with OCD often exhibit depression; furthermore, ERP for
OCD is associated with reduced depressive symptoms. To our knowledge, no study
has examined whether ERP itself functions to behaviorally activate patients with 
concurrent OCD and depressive symptoms. This prospective study was designed to
test the hypotheses that (a) OCD exposure hierarchy completion, increased BA, and
depressive symptom reduction would all be related, and (b) pre- to posttreatment 
changes in BA would mediate the direct effect of OCD hierarchy completion on
posttreatment depressive symptoms, even after controlling for pretreatment
depressive symptoms, pretreatment BA, pre- to posttreatment reductions in OCD
symptoms, treatment duration, and antidepressant medication use. Patients (N =
90) with a primary diagnosis of OCD who received residential ERP for OCD
completed a self-report battery at pre- and posttreatment. Exposure hierarchy
completion, increases in BA, and decreases in depression were all significantly
correlated (rs ranged .33 to .44). The effect of hierarchy completion on
posttreatment depressive symptoms was fully mediated by pre- to posttreatment
changes in BA. Findings highlight the potential for ERP to exert antidepressant
effects by behaviorally activating patients. Limitations, clinical implications, 
and future directions are discussed.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.05.007 
PMID: 30661561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Predictors and Moderators of Cognitive and Behavioral Therapy Outcomes for OCD: A
Patient-Level Mega-Analysis of Eight Sites.

Cognitive (CT) and behavioral treatments (BT) for OCD are efficacious separately 
and in combination. Tailoring treatment to patient-level predictors and
moderators of outcome has the potential to improve outcomes. The present study
combined data from eight treatment clinics to examine the benefits of BT (n =
125), CT (n = 108), and CBT (n = 126), and study predictors across all treatments
and moderators of outcome by treatment type. All three methods led to large
benefits for OCD and depression symptoms. Residual gain scores for OCD symptoms
were marginally smaller for BT compared to treatments containing CT. For
depression, significantly more gains were evident for CBT than BT, and CT did not
differ from either. Significantly fewer BT participants (36%) achieved clinically
significant improvement compared to CT (56%), and this was marginally evident for
CBT (48%). For all treatments combined, no predictors were identified in residual
gain analyses, but clinically improved patients had lower baseline depression and
stronger beliefs about responsibility/threat and importance/control of thoughts. 
Moderator analyses indicated that higher baseline scores on depression adversely 
affected outcomes for BT but not CT or CBT, and lower OCD severity and more
education were associated with positive outcomes for CT only. A trend was evident
for higher responsibility/threat beliefs to moderate clinical improvement
outcomes for those receiving cognitive (CT and CBT), but not behavioral (BT)
treatment. Medication status and comorbidity did not predict or moderate
outcomes. Findings are discussed in light of models underlying behavioral and
cognitive treatments for OCD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.04.004 
PMID: 30661557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373.Mental Contamination in Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: Associations With
Contamination Symptoms and Treatment Response.

The most common symptom of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is contamination
fear. Feelings of contamination can be provoked through contact with a physical
contaminant, referred to as contact contamination (CC), as well as in the absence
of one, referred to as mental contamination (MC). Prior research indicates that
CC and MC are distinct, and MC may interfere with treatment for CC. However, no
study to date has examined how MC may be associated with responses to physical
contaminants and treatment response for CC. This study examined the relationships
between CC and MC in a sample of individuals with elevated contamination symptoms
(N = 88), half of whom met diagnostic criteria for OCD. Participants engaged in
three sessions of exposure and response prevention (ERP) for CC and completed
self-report measures and behavioral tasks assessing CC and MC at pretreatment,
posttreatment, and follow-up. As hypothesized, at pretreatment, MC was positively
associated with reactivity to physical contaminants, even after participants
washed their hands. ERP for CC was associated with unique changes in CC and MC
across self-report and behavioral measures, and greater pretreatment MC predicted
greater posttreatment CC, though this effect was evident in only one of two CC
measures. Additionally, specificity analyses indicated changes in MC were
independent of changes in disgust propensity, a related construct. Pretreatment
disgust propensity also predicted treatment outcome, though the addition of
pretreatment disgust propensity as a covariate reduced the relationship between
pretreatment MC and posttreatment CC to nonsignificance. Results suggest MC plays
an important role in the manifestation and treatment of CC symptoms and may
represent a manifestation of disgust proneness. Theoretical and clinical
implications are discussed.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.03.005 
PMID: 30661555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Attention Bias Modification Treatment for Adolescents With Social Anxiety
Disorder.

Social anxiety disorder (SAD) tends to emerge during the early teenage years and 
is particularly refractory to change even when standard evidence-based CBT
treatments are delivered. Efforts have been made to develop novel,
mechanistic-driven interventions for this disorder. In the present study, we
examined Attention Bias Modification Treatment (ABMT) for youth with SAD.
Participants were 58 adolescents (mean age = 14.29 years) who met diagnostic
criteria for SAD and who were randomized to ABMT or a placebo control condition, 
Attention Control Training (ACT). We predicted that ABMT would result in greater 
changes in both threat biases and social anxiety symptoms. We also explored
potential moderators of change including the severity of social anxiety symptoms,
the level of threat bias at pretreatment, and the degree of temperament-defined
attention control. Contrary to our hypotheses, changes in attention bias were not
observed in either condition, changes in social anxiety symptoms and diagnosis
were small, and significant differences were not observed between the ABMT and
ACT conditions. Little support for the proposed moderators was obtained. Reasons 
for our failure to find support for ABMT and its potential moderators are
explored and recommendations for changes in the ABMT paradigm are suggested.



DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2018.04.002 
PMCID: PMC6347411
PMID: 30661553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375.Tic disorders revisited: introduction of the term "tic spectrum disorders".

Although the DSM-5 chronic motor tic disorder (CMTD) and Tourette syndrome (TS)
are distinct diagnostic categories, there is no genetic or phenotypic evidence
that supports this diagnostic categorization. The aim of this study was to
compare patients with both diagnoses along a number of clinical characteristics
to provide further diagnostic clarity. Our sample consisted of 1018 patients
(including adult and child patients) suffering from chronic tic disorders. Tic
severity was assessed via Shapiro Tourette-Syndrome Severity Scale (STSS).
Lifetime prevalence of other comorbid conditions was assessed in a
semi-structured clinical interview. The data were gained through retrospective
chart analysis. The two groups did not differ significantly in any of the
clinical or demographic variables. Patients only differed in tic severity, with
CMTD patients (n = 40) having lower mean tic severity (STSS = 2.0 vs. 2.8;
p < 0.001), prevalence of complex motor tics (27.5% vs. 55.9%; p < 0.01),
copropraxia (0% vs. 16.2%; p < 0.01) and echopraxia (10.0% vs. 23.8%; p < 0.05), 
and a markedly lower comorbidity score (1.9 vs. 2.7; p < 0.001) as compared to TS
patients (n = 978). Our results suggest that both disorders exist along a symptom
severity continuum of which TS constitutes a more severe and CMTD a less severe
form. We therefore suggest the introduction of the term "tic spectrum disorders",
instead of using different diagnostic categories.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-018-01272-7 
PMCID: PMC6675752
PMID: 30661132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Obesity in Adolescents with Psychiatric Disorders.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This narrative review synthesized recent research related to
obesity in adolescents with psychiatric disorders, with a focus on epidemiology, 
mechanisms, and weight management approaches. The paper reviews literature on
depressive and anxiety disorders, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia spectrum
and other psychotic disorders.
RECENT FINDINGS: Depression has a bidirectional relationship with obesity.
Bipolar disorder and schizophrenia spectrum disorders, and their treatments,
increase the risk of developing obesity. Mechanisms underlying this weight gain
include lifestyle and environmental factors and psychiatric medications, though
emerging evidence has also suggested the role of genetic and neuroendocrine
processes. Evidence about the most effective treatments for obesity in
adolescents with psychiatric disorders remains limited. Adolescents with
psychiatric disorders are at high risk for obesity. Close monitoring for
increases in weight and cardiometabolic risk factors with use of antipsychotic
and mood-stabilizing medications is recommended. Clinical trials are needed that 
test the efficacy of weight management strategies for this population.

DOI: 10.1007/s11920-019-0990-7 
PMCID: PMC6529197 [Available on 2020-01-19]
PMID: 30661128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Sex-specific association of depressive disorder and transient emotional states
with alcohol consumption in male and female alcoholics.

BACKGROUND: We assessed the impact of comorbid depression and anxiety disorders
as well as positive and negative emotional states on alcohol consumption in
alcohol dependent men and women.
METHODS: Per day alcohol consumption during 90 days before enrolment was assessed
by the Time Line Follow Back (TLFB) in 287 men and 156 women meeting DSM-IV-TR
criteria for alcohol dependence. Propensity to drink in negative/positive
emotional states was assessed using the Inventory of Drug Taking Situations
(IDTS). Psychiatric comorbidities, including major depressive disorder (MDD),
substance-induced depression (SID), anxiety disorders (AnxD), or
substance-induced anxiety (SIA) were identified by Psychiatric Research Interview
of Substance and Mood Disorders (PRISM).
RESULTS: In the combined group, increased number of drinks per day and number of 
heavy drinking days correlated with increased IDTS scores (all p < 0.0001), while
the lifetime history of MDD was associated with fewer drinking days (p = 0.045)
but not average number of drinks per day. Male sex was associated with higher
alcohol consumption per day (p < 0.0001), but not with the number of drinking
days (p > 0.05). Lifetime MDD history was associated with less drinking days
(p = 0.0084) and less heavy drinking days (p = 0.021) in alcohol dependent men,
while current MDD was associated with higher alcohol use per day in alcohol
dependent women (p = 0.044).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that emotional states and lifetime MDD history 
have sex-specific impact on alcohol use in alcohol dependent men and women. The
mechanisms underlying these findings and their relevance to treatment outcomes
need to be examined in future studies.



DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2018.12.010 
PMID: 30660937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Prevalence and course of subthreshold anxiety disorder in the general population:
A three-year follow-up study.

BACKGROUND: This study examined the prevalence, course and risk indicators of
subthreshold anxiety disorder to determine the necessity and possible risk
indicators for interventions.
METHODS: Data were derived from the 'Netherlands Mental Health Survey and
Incidence Study-2' (NEMESIS-2), a psychiatric epidemiological cohort study among 
the general population (n = 4528). This study assessed prevalence,
characteristics, and three-year course of subthreshold anxiety disorder (n = 521)
in adults, and compared them to a no anxiety group (n = 3832) and an anxiety
disorder group (n = 175). Risk indicators for persistent and progressive
subthreshold anxiety disorder were also explored, including socio-demographics,
vulnerability factors, psychopathology, physical health and functioning.
RESULTS: The three-year prevalence of subthreshold anxiety disorder was 11.4%. At
three-year follow-up, 57.3% had improved, 29.0% had persistent subthreshold
anxiety disorder and 13.8% had progressed to a full-blown anxiety disorder.
Prevalence, characteristics and course of subthreshold anxiety disorder were in
between both comparison groups. Risk indicators for persistent course partly
overlapped with those for progressive course and included vulnerability and
psychopathological factors, and diminished functioning.
LIMITATIONS: Course analysis were restricted to the development of anxiety
disorders, other mental disorders were not assessed. Moreover, due to the
naturalistic design of the study the impact of treatment on course cannot be
assessed.
CONCLUSIONS: Subthreshold anxiety disorder is relatively prevalent and at
three-year follow-up a substantial part of respondents experienced persistent
symptoms or had progressed into an anxiety disorder. Risk indicators like reduced
functioning may help to identify these persons for (preventative) treatment and
hence reduce functional limitations and disease burden.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.01.018 
PMID: 30660019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379.Etiological Distinction Across Dimensions of Math Anxiety.

Analyses have suggested math anxiety is a multidimensional construct. However,
previous behavioral genetic work examining math anxiety was unidimensional. Thus,
the purpose of the present study was to examine different approaches for
specifying behavioral genetic models of math anxiety as a multidimensional
construct. Three models were compared: a unidimensional model, a three dimension 
multidimensional model, and a bi-factor model, which partitioned variance into
one common factor shared across three dimensions of math anxiety and examined
residual variance in each dimension. The best fitting model was a bi-factor AE
model, which suggested moderate heritability of general math anxiety and that
each dimension of math anxiety had unique etiological influences not accounted
for by shared variance with the general math anxiety factor. Thus, while there
was evidence of shared etiology, there was also evidence of some etiological
distinction across dimensions of math anxiety. The results demonstrate the
importance of taking into account the dimensionality of the scale when
interpreting similarity across twins.

DOI: 10.1007/s10519-018-09946-3 
PMID: 30659474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380.Associations Between Anxiety and Adherence to Antiretroviral Medications in Low- 
and Middle-Income Countries: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.

Untreated mental health disorders among people living with HIV (PLHIV) may
prevent low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) from achieving the UNAIDS
90-90-90 targets. Anxiety disorders may be associated with decreased adherence to
antiretroviral therapy (ART). We sought to review and meta-analyze studies
estimating associations between anxiety and ART adherence in LMICs. We searched
PubMed, PsychINFO, CINAHL and EMBASE for relevant studies published before July
18, 2018. We defined anxiety as reported anxiety scores from screening
questionnaires or having a clinical diagnosis of an anxiety disorder, and poor
ART adherence as missed doses, poor visit attendance, or scores from structured
adherence questionnaires. We used a random effects model to conduct a
meta-analysis for calculating a pooled odds ratio, and conducted sensitivity
analyses by time on ART, anxiety evaluation method, and study region. From 472
screened manuscripts, thirteen studies met our inclusion criteria. Eleven studies
were included in the meta-analysis. PLHIV who reported anxiety had 59% higher
odds of poor ART adherence compared with those who did not report anxiety
disorder (pooled odds ratio [pOR]: 1.59, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.29-1.96, 
p < 0.001). When excluding PLHIV who initiated ART within 6 months, reported
anxiety remained strongly associated with poor ART adherence (pOR: 1.61, 95% CI
1.18-2.20, p = 0.003). Among PLHIV in LMICs, reported anxiety was associated with
poor ART adherence. This association persisted after the ART initiation period.
Increased resources for mental health may be important for achieving virologic
suppression in LMICs.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-018-02390-8 
PMCID: PMC6639150 [Available on 2020-02-01]
PMID: 30659424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Evaluation of anxiety and depression scales and quality of LIFE in cervical
dystonia patients on botulinum toxin therapy and their relatives.

OBJECTIVE: In this study, quality of life and psychiatric comorbid disorders were
investigated in patients with cervical dystonia and their spouses and we also
investigated the effect of botulinum toxin (BTX) treatment on these parameters.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Thirty patients with cervical dystonia (CD) on BTX treatment
and their spouses (n = 30) were included. Beck Depression Scale (BDS),
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory I and II (STAI-I, STAI-II), Hospital Anxiety Scale 
(HAS), Hospital Depression Scale (HDS) for psychiatric comorbid disease
assessment, Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Scale (TWSTRS) for disease
activity assessment, and Craniocervical Dystonia Questionnaire (CDQ-24), Cervical
Dystonia Impact Profile (CDIP-58), and Short Form 36 (SF-36) questionnaires for
quality of life assessment were used. BDS, STAI-I and STAI-II, HAS, HDS, and
SF-36 scales were also obtained from the spouses. The same tests were applied
both before and 8 weeks after the BTX treatment.
CONCLUSION: In our study, an increase in psychiatric comorbid disorders such as
depression and anxiety was observed and the quality of life was adversely
affected in all areas in patients. In the spouses of the patients, the rates of
psychiatric comorbid disorders such as depression and anxiety were found to be
increased when compared to healthy subjects while vitality, mental health, and
general health perception were found to be negatively affected. Patients showed
improvements in anxiety level, disease activity, and overall quality of life
scales after BTX treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-019-3719-9 
PMID: 30659417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Prediction of prolonged treatment course for depressive and anxiety disorders in 
an outpatient setting: The Leiden routine outcome monitoring study.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to improve clinical identification of
patients with a prolonged treatment course for depressive and anxiety disorders
early in treatment.
METHOD: We conducted a cohort study in 1.225 adult patients with a depressive or 
anxiety disorders in psychiatric specialty care setting between 2007 and 2011,
with at least two Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI) assessments within 6 months. With
logistic regression, we modelled baseline age, gender, ethnicity, education,
marital status, housing situation, employment status, psychiatric comorbidity and
both baseline and 1st follow-up BSI scores to predict prolonged treatment course 
(>2 years). Based on the regression coefficients, we present an easy to use risk 
prediction score.
RESULTS: BSI at 1st follow-up proved to be a strong predictor for both depressive
and anxiety disorders (OR = 2.17 (CI95% 1.73-2.74); OR = 2.52 (CI95% 1.86-3.23)).
The final risk prediction score included BSI 1st follow-up and comorbid axis II
disorder for depressive disorder, for anxiety disorders BSI 1st follow-up and age
were included. For depressive disorders, for 28% of the patients with the highest
scores, the positive predictive value for a prolonged treatment course was60%
(sensitivity 0.38, specificity 0.81). For anxiety disorders, for 35% of the
patients with the highest scores, the positive predictive value for a prolonged
treatment course was 52% (sensitivity 0.55, specificity 0.75).
CONCLUSIONS: A high level of symptoms at 2-6 months of follow-up is a strong
predictor for prolonged treatment course. This facilitates early identification
of patients at risk of a prolonged course of treatment; in a relatively easy way 
by a self-assessed symptom severity.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.035 
PMID: 30658244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. A cross-sectional study of associations between kinesiophobia, pain, disability, 
and quality of life in patients with chronic low back pain.

BACKGROUND: Low back pain is a significant health problem condition due to high
prevalence among the general population. Emotions and physical factors are
believed to play a role in chronic low back pain. Kinesiophobia is one of the
most extreme forms of fear of pain due to movement or re-injury. The purpose of
this study was to investigate the association between kinesiophobia and pain
intensity, disability and quality of life in people with chronic low back pain.
METHODS: The study included 132 individuals with chronic back pain, with ages
between 18 and 65 years old. Kinesiophobia was assessed using the Tampa Scale of 
Kinesiophobia, pain intensity was measured using the Numeric Rating Scale with a 
cut-off more than 3 for inclusion in the study, disability was assessed using the
Roland Morris questionnaire, quality of pain was assessed using the McGill
questionnaire, and quality of life was assessed using the Quality of Life
questionnaire SF-36.
RESULTS: The results are statistically significant, but with weak associations
were found between kinesiophobia and pain intensity (r = 0.187), quality of pain 
(sensory, r = 0.266; affective, r = - 0.174; and total r = 0.275), disability
(r = 0.399) and physical quality of life (emotional r = - 0.414).
CONCLUSION: Kinesiophobia is an important outcome to assess in patients with
chronic low back pain. The results suggest that correlations between
kinesiophobia and disability and quality of life are statistically significant.

DOI: 10.1186/s42358-018-0011-2 
PMID: 30657061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Hoarding in children and adolescents with obsessive-compulsive disorder:
prevalence, clinical correlates, and cognitive behavioral therapy outcome.

Hoarding, common in pediatric obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), has specific
clinical correlates and is associated with poor prognosis. However, there are few
studies of hoarding in pediatric OCD. This study estimates the occurrence of
hoarding symptoms in a sample of children and adolescents with OCD, investigating
possible differences in demographic and clinical variables between pediatric OCD 
with and without hoarding symptoms. Furthermore, the study investigates whether
hoarding symptoms predict poorer treatment outcomes after cognitive behavioral
therapy (CBT). The study sample comprised 269 children and adolescents with OCD, 
aged 7-17 years, from Denmark, Sweden, and Norway, who were all included in the
Nordic long-term obsessive-compulsive disorder Treatment Study. All had an OCD
diagnosis according to the DSM-IV and were treated with 14 weekly sessions of
manualized, exposure-based CBT. Hoarding symptoms and OCD severity were assessed 
with the Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale and group differences
in treatment outcome were analyzed using linear mixed-effect modelling.
Seventy-two patients (26.8%) had one or more symptoms of hoarding. Comorbid tic
disorders (p = 0.005) and indecision (p = 0.024) were more prevalent among those 
with hoarding symptoms than those without hoarding symptoms. In addition, youth
with hoarding symptoms had a different OCD symptom profile. Having symptoms of
hoarding did not affect CBT outcome (p = 0.933). Results from the study suggest
that CBT is equally effective for those with and without hoarding-related OCD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-019-01276-x 
PMID: 30656432  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Two novel genomic regions associated with fearfulness in dogs overlap human
neuropsychiatric loci.

Anxiety disorders are among the leading health issues in human medicine. The
complex phenotypic and allelic nature of these traits as well as the challenge of
establishing reliable measures of the heritable component of behaviour from the
associated environmental factors hampers progress in their molecular aetiology.
Dogs exhibit large natural variation in fearful and anxious behaviour and could
facilitate progress in the molecular aetiology due to their unique genetic
architecture. We have performed a genome-wide association study with a canine
high-density SNP array in a cohort of 330 German Shepherds for two phenotypes,
fear of loud noises (noise sensitivity) and fear of strangers or in novel
situations. Genome-widely significant loci were discovered for the traits on
chromosomes 20 and 7, respectively. The regions overlap human neuropsychiatric
loci, including 18p11.2, with physiologically relevant candidate genes that
contribute to glutamatergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission in the brain. In
addition, the noise-sensitivity locus includes hearing-related candidate genes.
These results indicate a genetic contribution for canine fear and suggest a
shared molecular aetiology of anxiety across species. Further characterisation of
the identified loci will pave the way to molecular understanding of the
conditions as a prerequisite for improved therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-018-0361-x 
PMCID: PMC6336819
PMID: 30655508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Investigating the predictive value of different resting-state functional MRI
parameters in obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Previous resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) studies of
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have facilitated our understanding of OCD
pathophysiology based on its intrinsic activity. However, whether the group
difference derived from univariate analysis could be useful for informing the
diagnosis of individual OCD patients remains unclear. We aimed to apply
multivariate pattern analysis of different rs-fMRI parameters to distinguish
drug-naive patients with OCD from healthy control subjects (HCS). Fifty-four
drug-naive OCD patients and 54 well-matched HCS were recruited. Four different
rs-fMRI parameter maps, including the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations
(ALFF), fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF), regional
homogeneity (ReHo) and functional connectivity strength (FCS), were calculated.
Training of a support vector machine (SVM) classifier using rs-fMRI maps produced
voxelwise discrimination maps. Overall, the classification accuracies were
acceptable for the four rs-fMRI parameters. Excellent performance was achieved
when ALFF maps were employed (accuracy, 95.37%, p < 0.01), good performance was
achieved by using ReHo maps, weaker performance was achieved by using fALFF maps,
and fair performance was achieved by using FCS maps. The brain regions showing
the greatest discriminative power included the prefrontal cortex, anterior
cingulate cortex, precentral gyrus, and occipital lobes. The application of SVM
to rs-fMRI features may provide potential power for OCD classification.

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-018-0362-9 
PMCID: PMC6336781
PMID: 30655506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Altered Uncinate Fasciculus Microstructure in Childhood Anxiety Disorders in Boys
But Not Girls.

OBJECTIVE: Anxiety disorders are common, can result in lifelong suffering, and
frequently begin before adolescence. Evidence from adults suggests that altered
prefrontal-limbic connectivity is a pathophysiological feature of anxiety
disorders. More specifically, in adults with anxiety disorders, decreased
fractional anisotropy (FA), a measure of white matter integrity, has been
observed in the uncinate fasciculus, the major tract that connects limbic and
prefrontal regions. Because of the early onset of anxiety disorders and the
increased incidence in anxiety disorders in females during their reproductive
years, it is important to understand whether the reduction in uncinate fasciculus
FA exists in children with anxiety disorders and the extent to which this
alteration is sex related. To address these issues, the authors assessed FA in
the uncinate fasciculus in unmedicated boys and girls with anxiety disorders.
METHODS: FA measures were derived from diffusion tensor images that were acquired
from 98 unmedicated children (ages 8-12); 52 met criteria for generalized anxiety
disorder, separation anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, or anxiety
disorder not otherwise specified, and 46 were matched control subjects.
RESULTS: Tract-based results demonstrated that children with anxiety disorders
have significant reductions in uncinate fasciculus FA. A significant sex-by-group
interaction and post hoc testing revealed that this effect was evident only in
boys. No other main effects or sex-by-group interactions were found for other
white matter tracts.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide evidence of uncinate fasciculus white matter 
alterations in boys with anxiety disorders. The data demonstrate that anxiety
disorder-related alterations in prefrontal-limbic structural connectivity are
present early in life, are not related to psychotropic medication exposure, and
are sex specific. Building on these findings, future research has the potential
to provide insights into the genesis and sexual dimorphism of the pathophysiology
that leads to anxiety disorders, as well as to identify sex-specific early-life
treatment targets.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2018.18040425 
PMCID: PMC6661168 [Available on 2020-03-01]
PMID: 30654645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. The relationship between phobic anxiety and 2-year readmission after Acute
Coronary Syndrome: What is the role of heart rate variability?

OBJECTIVE: Phobic anxiety is a risk factor for poor prognosis following Acute
Coronary Syndrome (ACS). A psychophysiological marker of vagal function,
autonomic dysfunction may play a critical role in this relationship. The aim of
the study was two-fold: to assess whether phobic anxiety was characterised by
autonomic dysfunction (heart rate variability) in the short (1-month) and longer 
term (12-months) following ACS, and (ii) to quantify the extent to which HRV
parameters modified the effect of phobic anxiety on all-cause hospital
readmission over 2 years.
METHODS: The ADVENT study followed 416 ACS patients. At 1-month following
discharge (T0), phobic anxiety and autonomic functioning were assessed using the 
Crown Crisp Index (CCI) and 11 indices of heart rate variability (HRV),
respectively. HRV was measured again at 12-months (T1) (n = 359). Hospital
readmission (all cause) was derived from an audit of hospital records by two
medically trained research fellows. Generalised linear modelling (GLM) was used
to first determine the association between CCI score at T0 and HRV parameters at 
T0 and T1. Binary logistic regression was used to measure the relationship
between CCI scores and readmission (yes/no) and the extent to which HRV
parameters modified this effect.
RESULTS: CCI scores were associated with 7 of the 11 indices of HRV: Average RR
(ms), SDRR (ms), RMSSD (ms), SDSD (ms), pRR50 (%), LF Powers (ms2) and HF Powers 
(ms2) at T0 but not T1. CCI scores at T0 significantly predicted likelihood of
readmission to hospital in the subsequent 2 year period. No parameter of HRV at
T0 modified this effect.
LIMITATIONS: We were unable to provide adjudicated major adverse coronary events 
outcome data, or account for changes in medication adherence, diet or physical
activity.
CONCLUSIONS: While phobic anxiety is associated with both reduced vagal function 
in the short term after an ACS event and 2 year all cause readmission, HRV does
not appear to be the pathway by which phobic anxiety drives this outcome.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.078 
PMID: 30654268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Personality, depression and anxiety in primary Sjogren's syndrome - Association
with sociodemographic factors and comorbidity.

OBJECTIVE: Patients with primary Sjögren's Syndrome (pSS) have diminished health 
quality and fatigue, arthralgia along with dryness of the mouth and eyes have
major impact on their psychological and social aspects of life. The purpose of
this study was to determine psychological features of patients with pSS. We
analyzed personality, depression and anxiety of patients with primary Sjögren's
Syndrome (pSS) in comparison with patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and
healthy controls (HC) and assessed their association with sociodemographic
factors and comorbidity.
METHODS: In 105 pSS patients (mean age 51.34 years, mean disease duration 5.98
years), 52 RA patients (mean age 51.37 years, mean disease duration 8.10 years)
and 54 HC (mean age 51.35 years) clinical and sociodemographic characteristics
were determined and results analyzed. At enrollment patients and controls
completed the Revisited NEO Personality Inventory Five-Factor model (NEO-PI-R),
the Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale and the Zung Self-Rating Anxiety Scale.
Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS [Version 16.0]. The relative size 
of the effect was assessed based on standardized estimates of effect size (d).
RESULTS: Patients with pSS, similarly to RA patients had higher scores of
Neuroticism (d = 0.46, p = 0.007) and lower scores of Extraversion (d = 0.51, p =
0.001) and Openness for experience (d = 0.65, p = 0.013) compared to HC. There
was no significant differences between pSS group and HC in the depression (d =
0.171, p>0.05). However, patients with pSS had higher anxiety in comparison to HC
(p<0.0001). In multivariate models, education and satisfaction with family
relationships were significant predictors for psychological characteristics of
patients, independently of clinical diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study is the first to show that patients with pSS scored high on
neuroticism and anxiety and low on sociability. Education and satisfaction with
family relationships predisposed to their psychological profile. Psychological
assessment of patients with pSS may improve understanding and treatment of this
clinical condition.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0210466 
PMCID: PMC6336324
PMID: 30653543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390.Update on treatments for nonmotor symptoms of Parkinson's disease-an
evidence-based medicine review.

OBJECTIVE: To update evidence-based medicine recommendations for treating
nonmotor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD).
BACKGROUND: The International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society
Evidence-Based Medicine Committee's recommendations for treatments of PD were
first published in 2002, updated in 2011, and now updated again through December 
31, 2016.
METHODS: Level I studies testing pharmacological, surgical, or nonpharmacological
interventions for the treatment of nonmotor symptoms in PD were reviewed.
Criteria for inclusion and quality scoring were as previously reported. The
disorders covered were a range of neuropsychiatric symptoms, autonomic
dysfunction, disorders of sleep and wakefulness, pain, fatigue, impaired
olfaction, and ophthalmologic dysfunction. Clinical efficacy, implications for
clinical practice, and safety conclusions are reported.
RESULTS: A total of 37 new studies qualified for review. There were no randomized
controlled trials that met inclusion criteria for the treatment of anxiety
disorders, rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, excessive sweating,
impaired olfaction, or ophthalmologic dysfunction. We identified clinically
useful or possibly useful interventions for the treatment of depression, apathy, 
impulse control and related disorders, dementia, psychosis, insomnia, daytime
sleepiness, drooling, orthostatic hypotension, gastrointestinal dysfunction,
urinary dysfunction, erectile dysfunction, fatigue, and pain. There were no
clinically useful interventions identified to treat non-dementia-level cognitive 
impairment.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence base for treating a range of nonmotor symptoms in PD
has grown substantially in recent years. However, treatment options overall
remain limited given the high prevalence and adverse impact of these disorders,
so the development and testing of new treatments for nonmotor symptoms in PD
remains a top priority. © 2019 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society.



DOI: 10.1002/mds.27602 
PMCID: PMC6916382
PMID: 30653247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Psychological interventions for people affected by childhood-onset heart disease:
A systematic review.

OBJECTIVE: Guidelines recommend psychological intervention for children,
adolescents, and adults with childhood-onset heart disease and their families,
yet a comprehensive review of interventions is lacking. We aimed to determine the
efficacy of psychological interventions for this population.
METHOD: We searched 6 electronic databases until August, 2017 for
English-language, controlled trials of psychological interventions for children, 
adolescents, or adults with congenital heart disease, inherited arrhythmias, or
cardiomyopathies, or their family members. Outcomes of interest included:
anxiety, depression, psychological stress and distress, health-related quality of
life, coping and adjustment, developmental outcomes, physical health, and parent 
and family outcomes.
RESULTS: Of 7,660 identified articles, 11 articles reporting on 9 unique
interventions met inclusion criteria. Four interventions included adolescents or 
adults with congenital heart disease, 2 of which also included individuals with
cardiomyopathies, valvular heart conditions, or inherited arrhythmias. Five
interventions targeted parents, predominantly mothers, of children with
congenital heart disease. Clinical and methodological diversity was observed
across trials. Parent-focused interventions demonstrated some improvements in
maternal mental health, including anxiety and worry, coping, and family
functioning. Evidence for the efficacy of interventions for adolescents and
adults was limited. Most trials (8/9) were at "high" or "serious" risk of bias.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite an established evidence-base for psychological interventions
in other chronic illness populations, evidence of efficacy for children and
adults with childhood-onset heart disease and their families was limited.
Interventions using conceptual frameworks tested in methodologically robust
trials are needed to enhance the provision of mental health care for people of
all ages with childhood-onset heart disease. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019
APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/hea0000704 
PMID: 30652913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Association of Childhood Adversity With Differential Susceptibility of
Transdiagnostic Psychopathology to Environmental Stress in Adulthood.

Importance: Multivariable comorbidity research indicates that childhood adversity
increases the risk for the development of common mental disorders. This risk is
explained by underlying internalizing and externalizing transdiagnostic
constructs that are amplified by environmental stressors. The differential
susceptibility model suggests that this interaction of risk and environment is
bidirectional: at-risk individuals will have worse outcomes in high-stress
environments but better outcomes in in low-stress environments.
Objective: To test the differential susceptibility model by examining how a
history of adverse childhood experiences moderates the association between life
stress and transdiagnostic psychopathology.
Design, Setting, and Participants: Data came from the US National Epidemiological
Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions (NESARC), a population-based
observational longitudinal survey administered to adults (≥18 years of age).
Participants completed the survey at wave 1 (from 2001 through 2002) and wave 2
(from 2004 through 2005). Responses from 34 458 participants were used for the
analyses from March 3, 2017, through October 8, 2018.
Main Outcomes and Measures: Latent variables for internalizing-fear,
internalizing-distress, externalizing, and general psychopathology were created
to represent continuous levels of psychopathology in each wave. Latent variables 
were also created to represent continuous levels of life stress at each wave.
Level of childhood adversity was characterized based on the number of types of
childhood adversity experienced (no [0 types], low [1-2 types], and high [≥3
types] exposure). Analyses examined how the interaction between level of
childhood adversity and adult life stress was associated with change in adult
transdiagnostic psychopathology factors.
Results: Of the 34 458 participants included in the analysis (58.0% women and
42.0% men; mean [SD] age, 46.0 [17.4] years at wave 1 and 49.0 [17.3] years at
wave 2), 40.5% had no adverse childhood experiences, 34.6% had 1 to 2, and 24.9% 
had 3 or more. At wave 1, 61.5% of the sample endorsed at least 1 stressful life 
event and 27.2% met criteria for at least 1 mental disorder; at wave 2, these
figures were 64.7% and 29.7%, respectively. Childhood adversity moderated the
association between changes in adult life stress and changes in all
transdiagnostic psychopathology factors. Specifically, higher levels of childhood
adversity had a stronger association between adult life stress and adult
transdiagnostic psychopathology factors. Further, significant differences between
childhood adversity groups occurred in the mean scores of all transdiagnostic
psychopathology factors for both increases and decreases in life stress,
providing preliminary evidence of differential susceptibility.
Conclusions and Relevance: Results provide empirical support for childhood
adversity as a differential susceptibility factor engendering heightened
functional and dysfunctional reactivity to later stress.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2018.5354 
PMCID: PMC6324405
PMID: 30646399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Psychometric properties and factorial analysis of invariance of the Satisfaction 
with Life Scale (SWLS) in cancer patients.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to assess the psychometric properties of
the Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWLS), evaluate the measurement invariance with
respect to sex, age, and tumor location, as well as analyze associations between 
life satisfaction and socio-demographic and clinical variables among individuals 
with resected, non-advanced cancer.
METHODS: A confirmatory factor analysis was conducted to explore the
dimensionality of the scale and test invariance across gender, age, and tumor
localization in a prospective, multicenter cohort of 713 patients who completed
the following scales: SWLS, Health-related Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC
QLQ-C30), Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI-18).
RESULTS: Confirmatory factor analysis results indicated that the SWLS is an
essentially unidimensional instrument, providing accurate scores: both McDonald's
omega and Cronbach's alpha estimates were 0.91. Strong measurement invariance was
found to hold across gender, age, and tumor localization. Low satisfaction with
life was associated with psychological symptoms (anxiety, depression, and
somatization), and decreased quality of life (malfunction, symptoms, poor global 
QoL).
CONCLUSION: The SWLS is a reliable, valid satisfaction with life measurement
among people with cancer and should be recommended as an indicator of
psychological adjustment in oncological patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-019-02106-y 
PMID: 30644028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Scrupulosity, Religious Affiliation and Symptom Presentation in Obsessive
Compulsive Disorder.

BACKGROUND: Scrupulosity is a common yet understudied presentation of obsessive
compulsive disorder (OCD) that is characterized by obsessions and compulsions
focused on religion. Despite the clinical relevance of scrupulosity to some
presentations of OCD, little is known about the association between scrupulosity 
and symptom severity across religious groups.
AIMS: The present study examined the relationship between (a) religious
affiliation and OCD symptoms, (b) religious affiliation and scrupulosity, and (c)
scrupulosity and OCD symptoms across religious affiliations.
METHOD: One-way ANOVAs, Pearson correlations and regression-based moderation
analyses were conducted to evaluate these relationships in 180 treatment-seeking 
adults with OCD who completed measures of scrupulosity and OCD symptom severity.
RESULTS: Scrupulosity, but not OCD symptoms in general, differed across religious
affiliations. Individuals who identified as Catholic reported the highest level
of scrupulosity relative to individuals who identified as Protestant, Jewish or
having no religion. Scrupulosity was associated with OCD symptom severity
globally and across symptom dimensions, and the magnitude of these relationships 
differed by religious affiliation.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings are discussed in terms of the dimensionality of
scrupulosity, need for further assessment instruments, implications for
assessment and intervention, and the consideration of religious identity in
treatment.

DOI: 10.1017/S1352465818000711 
PMID: 30642412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Trajectories of maternal depressive and anxiety symptoms from pregnancy to five
years postpartum and their prenatal predictors.

BACKGROUND: Maternal depression and anxiety have distinct constellations of
symptom trajectories, which are associated with factors that may vary between
different groups of women. The aim of this study was to identify subgroups of
women who exhibit unique longitudinal trajectory patterns of depressive and
anxiety symptoms from pregnancy to 5 years postpartum and the antenatal
predictors associated with these maternal groups.
METHODS: The study used a longitudinal data collected from 615 women in
Saskatchewan from pregnancy to 5 years postpartum. Semiparametric group-based
models were used to identify latent maternal depressive and anxiety trajectory
groups. Multinomial logit models were then used to assess the association between
maternal characteristics and the identified latent trajectory groups.
RESULTS: We identified four trajectory groups of maternal depressive symptoms:
low-stable (35%); moderate-stable (54%); moderate-increasing (5%); and
high-decreasing (6%), and three trajectory groups of maternal anxiety symptoms:
very low-stable (13%); low-stable (58%); and moderate-stable (29%). We also
identified several risk factors, most notably history of depression and stress,
that were significantly associated with these trajectories.
CONCLUSION: History of depression and increased stress are significant risk
factors that can be identified during regular perinatal visits; therefore,
clinicians should inquire about these risk factors to identify women at high risk
of ongoing depression or anxiety.

DOI: 10.1186/s12884-019-2177-y 
PMCID: PMC6332639
PMID: 30642277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. The effect of visceral fat and elevated blood glucose on anxiety levels in
college age students.
Anxiety is prevalent among young adults; research shows metabolic inflexibility, 
the inability to oxidize fat, can increase the occurrence of hyper-aroused
states. Fasting blood glucose is the current protocol for assessing metabolic
impairment. However, recent studies have shown young adults may have normal
fasting blood glucose levels with underlying irregularities in postprandial
glucose regulation, insulin secretion and cortisol release, which causes a
pattern of visceral fat accumulation. Visceral fat of the volunteers was assessed
using the DXA (Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry) full body scanning method; the
waist was assessed by taking the circumference at the midpoint between the lower 
margin of the last palpable rib and the top of the iliac crest to formulate a
waist to height ratio (WHtR); fasting glucose levels were measured via
point-of-care (POC) finger-stick method using the Abbott Precision blood glucose 
meter and anxiety levels. The Pearson R correlation test showed significance
between GAD-7 and VAT Volume at r = 0.513 VAT Mass r = 0.514 body fat percentage 
r = 0.407 and Android r = 0.419. This correlation between GAD-7 and VAT Volume
and VAT Mass shows the physiological connection between elevated visceral fat and
heightened anxiety. High amounts of visceral fat may lead to an increase in
insulin and cortisol levels. The study may suggest that increased fasting blood
glucose is not necessarily the best predictor of metabolic dysregulation in a
population of healthy college students.



DOI: 10.1016/j.dsx.2018.06.006 
PMID: 30641810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Does cognitive-behavioral therapy affect goal-directed planning in
obsessive-compulsive disorder?

Cross-sectional studies have reported failures in goal-directed planning in
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). It remains unclear whether these deficits
confer vulnerability to developing OCD, or are a consequence of symptoms. The
present study examined goal-directed learning before and after cognitive
behavioral therapy (CBT), using treatment as a tool to reduce symptoms. Eighteen 
adult OCD patients undergoing 17 sessions of CBT completed an established task of
model-based (i.e., goal directed) versus model-free planning as well as measures 
of OCD and depression before and after treatment. We thus tested whether
improvements in goal-directed performance accompany improvements in OCD symptoms 
or if instead task performance remains stable despite symptom improvement.
Results showed prior to treatment, higher OCD severity was associated with
greater deficits in model-based planning. OCD severity scores significantly
improved from pre- to post-treatment. Inconsistent with the state-view, OCD
symptom improvement was not accompanied by improvements in model-based
performance. At post-treatment, OCD severity scores were no longer correlated
with model-based performance. Together, these data suggest that reducing OCD
symptoms with CBT does not affect goal-directed planning. This supports a trait
model of the relationship between goal-directed planning and OCD symptoms, such
that problems in goal-directed planning may be an OCD risk factor.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.079 
PMID: 30640057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398.Intolerance of uncertainty and responsibility for harm predict nocturnal panic
attacks.

Nocturnal panic involves waking suddenly from sleep in a state of panic, with no 
apparent cause, and affects more than half of patients with panic disorder. The
Fear of Loss of Vigilance theory is the only proposed model for nocturnal panic, 
suggesting nocturnal panickers fear states in which they are unable to react to
danger or protect themselves from threats. Prior work using a self-report
questionnaire designed to test the theory (i.e., Fear of Loss of Vigilance
Questionnaire; FLOVQ) was unsuccessful at differentiating nocturnal from daytime 
panickers. This study tested the theory using alternative measures to the FLOVQ. 
We predicted nocturnal panickers would show elevated responses to measures
assessing fears of being unable to respond to or protect themselves from threats.
A diverse community sample (N = 218) completed self-report measures related to
panic attacks, intolerance of uncertainty, responsibility for harm, and anxiety
sensitivity dimensions. Nocturnal panickers endorsed greater inhibitory
intolerance of uncertainty and responsibility for harm, but not prospective
intolerance of uncertainty, or anxiety sensitivity physical or cognitive
concerns. This study provides support for the fear of loss of vigilance theory
and suggests intolerance of uncertainty and responsibility for harm reduction be 
targeted in treatment for nocturnal panic attacks.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2019.01.025 
PMID: 30640055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Examining a training effect on the state anxiety response to an acute bout of
exercise in low and high anxious individuals.

BACKGROUND: An acute bout of exercise temporarily reduces state anxiety. The
current study examined whether these benefits are greater for those with higher
levels of anxiety, and whether these benefits are augmented with exercise
training.
METHODS: Young adults were randomized to either a nine-week moderate-intensity
exercise group or an inactive control group. We assessed changes in state anxiety
in response to an acute bout of exercise each week.
RESULTS: State anxiety reductions following acute exercise increased in the
exercise subgroup with high anxiety at baseline as training progressed
(p = .029). No training effects were observed for the exercise subgroup with low 
baseline anxiety (p = .27).
LIMITATIONS: A predominantly female sample, a single state anxiety measure post
exercise and a non-exercise control group should be addressed in future research.
CONCLUSIONS: The results support the use of regular physical activity as a method
for managing state anxiety in young adults. In particular, regular physical
activity may be especially beneficial for those experiencing higher levels of
anxiety.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.063 
PMID: 30640027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Health-Related Quality of Life of Pediatric Spinal Surgery Complications.

BACKGROUND: Health-related quality of life (utility) measures are essential
components of effectiveness analyses. The health-related quality of life of
health states in pediatric patients who underwent spinal surgery have not been
reported previously.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the utility of complications after spinal surgeries and
side effects of acetazolamide administration.
METHODS: Parent caregivers, nurses, neurosurgeons, and orthopedists were
interviewed as proxies to evaluate the preference of health conditions in
pediatric patients who underwent intradural surgeries. We measured the utility of
spinal surgery complications (cerebrospinal fluid leakage and collection, wound
dehiscence, operation site infection, and secondary repair of operation site),
side effects of acetazolamide administration (loss of appetite, mild
gastroenteritis, and severe acid/base and/or electrolyte imbalance), taking pills
(for 10 days, 1 month, and 1 year), and 24 hours of ward or intensive care unit
admission by visual analogue scale.
RESULTS: One hundred individuals were interviewed (pilot study: 20 individuals;
main study: 40 parents, 27 nurses, 8 neurosurgeons, and 5 orthopedists).
Sixty-four (80%) of the respondents were female. Taking pills for 10 days had the
highest utility value (0.71 ± 0.13), whereas secondary surgical repair of the
operation site and acid/base and/or electrolyte imbalance had the lowest
preference (0.19 ± 0.16 and 0.23 ± 0.11, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides the utility measures for quality assessment of
temporary postsurgical events in pediatric patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vhri.2018.11.005 
PMID: 30639949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder Following Cerebrovascular Accident: A Case Report
and Literature Review.

BACKGROUND: Cases of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) following
cerebrovascular accident (CVA) have rarely been reported.
METHODS: Case report and literature review.
RESULTS: We describe the case of a 58-year-old, right-handed man developed OCD 17
months after stroke resulting from lesion of the right middle cerebral artery
infarction. The patient was successfully treated with sertraline up to 50 mg per 
day. His OCD behaviors largely reduced in 6 weeks, and the Yale-Brown Obsessive
Compulsive Scale score was reduced from 29 to 12 in 1 year. A literature review
revealed 21 previous cases of OCD following CVA. Among these, consistent with our
case, the basal ganglia was the most common site of the lesion responsible for
the development of this rare disorder. We discuss the patient's treatment and
outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Our present case and a literature review suggest that OCD can
manifest following CVA, although further studies are necessary. Selective
serotonin reuptake inhibitors appear to be effective in treating this rare
disorder.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2018.12.034 
PMID: 30638936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Prevalence of mental health conditions and pain in adults with skeletal
dysplasia.

PURPOSE: We sought to examine the prevalence of depression and anxiety in adults 
with skeletal dysplasias, and to assess any correlations with pain.
METHODS: Participation was via an anonymous REDCap survey, which consisted of
sociodemographic questions followed by the brief pain inventory-short form
(BPI-SF), patient health questionnaire-8 (PHQ-8), and generalized anxiety
disorder-7 (GAD-7) questionnaires. These assessed pain, depression, and anxiety
respectively.
RESULTS: Of the 336 usable responses, 16.1% scored 10 or greater on the PHQ-8
consistent with current depression while 17.3% scored 10 or greater on the GAD-7 
consistent with current anxiety. The majority of participants (76.2%) experienced
pain, which was significantly associated with prior mental health diagnoses
(p < 0.05). A total of 34% reported either a prior diagnosis of depression or
scored 10 or greater on the PHQ-8, and 31% reported either a prior diagnosis of
anxiety or scored 10 or greater on the GAD-7.
CONCLUSIONS: This study identified a substantial percentage of individuals with
mental health concerns as well as pain in the adult skeletal dysplasia
population. Further research is warranted to investigate barriers to service or
treatment of mental health disorders as well as pain management.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-019-02102-2 
PMID: 30637564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. A Feasibility Open Trial of a Brief Internet-Delivered Written Exposure Therapy
for Worry.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive exposure, a treatment of choice for hypothetical fears,
involves listening repeatedly to a recorded scenario of one's worst hypothetical 
fear. A major limitation, however, is that the script cannot be easily modified.
AIMS: The current study assessed the feasibility of a brief guided internet-based
written exposure therapy (iWET) for hypothetical fears, Mind at Peace.
METHOD: Fifty-three adults presenting clinical levels of anxiety (GAD-7 ≥ 8) and 
worry (PSWQ ≥ 45) were recruited. A single group pre-test/post-test design
including a 3-month follow-up was used. Mind at Peace is a 6-week iWET consisting
of psychoeducation and five 30-minute weekly writing exposure sessions.
Feasibility outcome measures included treatment adherence, attrition, treatment
acceptability and preliminary efficacy. Primary outcome measures were the
Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7) and the Penn State Worry Questionnaire
(PSWQ).
RESULTS: Attrition was higher (57%) and adherence lower (28%) than expected.
Intent-to-treat repeated measures ANOVAs revealed significant and large
improvements on the GAD-7 (ƞp2 = 0.36) and the PSWQ (ƞp2 = 0.23) with similar
findings among study completers. Remission rates were higher on the GAD-7 than on
the PSWQ, suggesting that Mind at Peace may primarily target general symptoms of 
generalized anxiety. Rates of acceptability varied, but nearly all study
completers reported that they would recommend this treatment to a friend.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provided valuable information on Mind at Peace.
Methodological changes are proposed to improve its feasibility. A more definitive
trial incorporating suggested methodological improvements is recommended.

DOI: 10.1017/S1352465818000693 
PMID: 30636654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Psychometric analysis of the Swedish panic disorder severity scale and its
self-report version.

BACKGROUND: Panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia (PDA or PD,
respectively), is a major public health problem. After having established a PD
diagnosis based on the DSM or the ICD systems, the Panic Disorder Severity Scale 
(PDSS) is the most widely used interview-based instrument for assessing disorder 
severity. There is also a self-report version of the instrument (PDSS-SR); both
exist in a Swedish translation but their psychometric properties remain untested.
METHODS: We studied 221 patients with PD/PDA recruited to a randomized controlled
preference trial of cognitive-behavioral and brief panic-focused psychodynamic
psychotherapy. In addition to PDSS and PDSS-SR the participants completed
self-reports including the Clinical Outcome in Routine Evaluation - Outcome
Measure, Montgomery Åsberg Depression Rating Scale, Sheehan Disability Scale,
Bodily Sensations Questionnaire and the Mobility Inventory for Agoraphobia.
RESULTS: PDSS and PDSS-SR possessed excellent psychometric properties (internal
consistency, test-retest reliability) and convergent validity. A single factor
structure for both versions was not confirmed. In terms of clinical utility, the 
PDSS had very high inter-rater reliability and correspondence with PD assessed
via structured diagnostic interview. Both versions were sensitive to the effects 
of PD-focused treatment, although subjects scored systematically lower on the
self-report version.
CONCLUSIONS: The study confirmed the reliability and validity of the Swedish
versions of PDSS and PDSS-SR. Both versions were highly sensitive to the effects 
of two PD-focused treatments and can be used both in clinical and research
settings. However, further investigation of the factor structures of both the
PDSS and PDSS-SR is warranted.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01606592.

DOI: 10.1080/08039488.2018.1554699 
PMID: 30636466  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Predominant polarity in bipolar I and II disorders: A five-year follow-up study.

BACKGROUND: Patients with bipolar disorder (BD) differ in their relative
predominance of types of episodes, yielding predominant polarity, which has
important treatment implications. However, few prospective studies of predominant
polarity exist.
METHODS: In the Jorvi Bipolar Study (JoBS), a regionally representative cohort of
191 BD I and BD II in- and outpatients was followed for five years using
life-chart methodology. Differences between depressive (DP), manic (MP), and no
predominant polarity (NP) groups were examined regarding time ill, incidence of
suicide attempts, and comorbidity.
RESULTS: At baseline, 16% of patients had MP, 36% DP, and 48% NP. During the
follow-up the MP group spent significantly more time euthymic, less time in major
depressive episodes, and more time in manic states than the DP and NP groups. The
MP group had significantly lower incidence of suicide attempts than the DP and NP
group, lower prevalence of comorbid anxiety disorders but more psychotic symptoms
lifetime and more often (hypo)manic first phase of the illness than the DP group.
Classification of predominant polarity was influenced by the timeframe used.
LIMITATIONS: The retrospective counting of former phases is vulnerable to recall 
bias. Assignment of dominant polarity may necessitate a sufficient number of
illness phases.
CONCLUSIONS: Predominant polarity has predictive value in predicting group
differences in course of illness, but individual patients' classification may
change over time. Patients with manic polarity may represent a more distinct
subgroup than the two others regarding illness course, suicide attempts, and
psychiatric comorbidity.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.093 
PMID: 30634112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Effects of onabotulinumtoxinA treatment for chronic migraine on common
comorbidities including depression and anxiety.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects of onabotulinumtoxinA treatment for chronic
migraine (CM) on comorbid symptoms of depression, anxiety, fatigue and poor sleep
quality.
METHODS: The Chronic Migraine OnabotulinuMtoxinA Prolonged Efficacy open-Label
(COMPEL) study is a multicentre, open-label, prospective study assessing the
long-term safety and efficacy of onabotulinumtoxinA 155 U over nine treatments
(108 weeks) in adults with CM. The Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and
Generalised Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7) scales were used to assess the effects of
onabotulinumtoxinA on comorbid symptoms of depression and anxiety, respectively. 
A clinically meaningful improvement was assessed by the percentage of patients
experiencing a ≥1 severity category reduction in PHQ-9 and GAD-7. The effects of 
onabotulinumtoxinA on associated sleep quality and fatigue were assessed using
the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and Fatigue Severity Scale, respectively.
RESULTS: OnabotulinumtoxinA treatment was associated with sustained reduction in 
headache days and PHQ-9 and GAD-7 scores in the analysis population (n=715) over 
108 weeks. PHQ-9 and GAD-7 scores were significantly reduced at all time points
in patients with clinically significant symptoms of depression and/or anxiety at 
baseline. By week 108, 78.0% and 81.5% had clinically meaningful improvement in
depression and anxiety symptoms, respectively. Sleep quality and symptoms of
fatigue also improved; however, less is understood about clinically meaningful
changes in these measures. No new safety concerns were identified.
CONCLUSION: In addition to reducing headache frequency, onabotulinumtoxinA
treatment for CM was associated with clinically meaningful reduction in symptoms 
of depression and anxiety, and improved associated symptoms of poor sleep quality
and fatigue.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT01516892.




DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2018-319290 
PMCID: PMC6518474
PMID: 30630956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]



407. After the Fort McMurray wildfire there are significant increases in mental health
symptoms in grade 7-12 students compared to controls.

BACKGROUND: In order to examine the impact of disasters on adolescent mental
health, this study compared population mental health survey data from two
communities in Alberta, Canada: Fort McMurray, which experienced a major natural 
disaster, and Red Deer, which did not.
METHODS: Data from 3070 grade 7-12 students from Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada
(collected in 2017, 18 months after the 2016 wildfire) was compared with data
from 2796 grade 7-12 students from Red Deer, Alberta, Canada (collected in 2014).
The same measurement scales were used for both surveys. Both of these cities have
populations of approximately 100,000, and both cities are located in Alberta,
Canada. For this reason, Red Deer is an appropriate non-disaster impacted
community to compare to the disaster impacted community of Fort McMurray.
RESULTS: The results of this comparison demonstrate that mental health symptoms
were statistically significantly elevated in the Fort McMurray population when
compared to the control population in Red Deer. This occurred for scores
consistent with a diagnosis of depression (31% vs. 17%), moderately severe
depression (17% vs. 9%), suicidal thinking (16% vs. 4%), and tobacco use (13% vs.
10%). Consistent with there being major mental health impacts from the 2016 Fort 
McMurray wildfire, self-esteem scores and quality of life scores were also
statistically significantly lower in Fort McMurray. While the rates of anxiety
disorder were similar (15% vs. 16%), the mean scores on the anxiety scale were
slightly higher, with this difference reaching statistical significance. There
were no statistical differences in the rates or scores for alcohol or substance
use.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results are consistent with previous findings showing a
significant negative impact of disasters on many aspects of adolescent mental,
with a particular increase in symptoms related to depression and suicidal
thinking. These findings highlight first, the need to identify adolescents most
at risk of developing psychiatric symptoms after experiencing the trauma of
disaster and second, the importance and necessity of implementing short and long 
term mental health intervention programs specifically aimed at adolescents, in
order to help mitigate the negative effects of disasters on their mental health.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-018-2007-1 
PMCID: PMC6329184
PMID: 30630501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Overcoming avoidance in anxiety disorders: The contributions of Pavlovian and
operant avoidance extinction methods.

Avoidance is generally adaptive, yet excessive rates of avoidance can become
maladaptive and lead to functional impairment and psychopathology.
Laboratory-based treatment research has provided important insights about the
acquisition, maintenance, and extinction of maladaptive avoidance. Despite this, 
laboratory research on avoidance learning and extinction in humans is relatively 
underdeveloped. A better understanding of avoidance extinction methods has
implications for basic research with humans and the development of treatment
interventions aimed at replacing maladaptive behavior with an adaptive,
functional repertoire. The present article reviews, for the first time, the use
of the term extinction in human research on avoidance, contrasts existing
Pavlovian and operant approaches to the extinction of avoidance, considers the
validity of approaches to avoidance extinction, and suggests a consistent
terminology and research gaps for future translational research on anxiety and
related disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2019.01.007 
PMID: 30629978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Relationship of Anxiety and Depression with Respiratory Symptoms: Comparison
between Depressed and Non-Depressed Smokers in Singapore.

The rising prevalence of smokers in the community, specifically psychiatric
patients, necessitates smoking cessation as an important strategy for reducing
the harmful effects of tobacco. This study aims to compare the profiles of
depressed and non-depressed smokers and evaluate how psychiatric symptoms
influence respiratory symptoms. A cross-sectional survey was administered to 276 
non-depressed adult smokers in the community and 69 adult smokers who had been
formally diagnosed with depression in the outpatient clinic of a University
Hospital in Singapore. Participants were administered questionnaires on smoking
attitudes and perceptions, psychiatric symptoms, and respiratory symptoms.
Correlations and multiple regression analyses were conducted. The mean age of
smokers in the study was 35.32 ± 13.05 years. Smokers in the community and
psychiatric samples were largely similar on all of the sociodemographic factors, 
except that fewer depressed people were employed (χ² = 8.35, p < 0.01). Smokers
with depression also reported more attempts to quit smoking (χ² = 7.14, p <
0.05), higher mean depressive, anxiety, and stress symptom (DASS) scores (t =
-10.04, p < 0.01), and endorsed more respiratory symptoms than smokers in the
community (t = -2.40, p < 0.05). The DASS scores, number of cigarettes smoked
daily, years of smoking, general perception of smokers getting heart disease, and
presence of lung disease were positively and significantly correlated with
respiratory symptoms. On multiple regression, only anxiety symptoms (β = 0.26, p 
< 0.05) and the presence of lung disease (β = 0.22, p < 0.001) were significantly
correlated with respiratory symptoms. Depressed smokers reported greater
difficulty in quitting tobacco use, and they perceived more severe respiratory
symptoms compared to non-depressed counterparts. Anxiety symptoms were positively
associated with the severity of respiratory symptoms. Smoking cessation campaigns
need to specifically target psychological symptoms in smokers and focus more
psychoeducation on the risk of cardiovascular disease in the middle-aged
population.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph16010163 
PMCID: PMC6339029
PMID: 30626156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Correlates and predictors of pain intensity and physical function among
individuals with chronic knee osteoarthritis in Nigeria.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the correlates between pain intensity (PI) and 
physical function (PF) and psychosocial factors {kinesiophobia (K), Pain
Catastrophizing (PC) and Self-efficacy (SE)} among patients diagnosed with knee
osteoarthritis in developing countries like Nigeria.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the correlates of PI and PF and psychosocial factors in
patients with knee osteoarthritis in Nigeria.
DESIGN: Eighty-nine consecutively sampled patients diagnosed with knee
osteoarthritis from three selected public hospitals in Enugu, South-East Nigeria,
participated in this cross-sectional survey.
METHOD: Brief Fear of Movement Scale for Osteoarthritis, Pain Catastrophizing
Scale and Arthritis Self-Efficacy Scale-8 item were used to assess kinesiophobia,
pain catastrophizing and Self-efficacy respectively. Visual Analogue Scale and
Ibadan Knee or Hip Osteoarthritis Measure were used to assess PI and PF
respectively. Data were analysed using Pearson's correlation coefficient and
multiple regression at p = 0.05.
RESULTS/FINDINGS: Participants were aged 59.11 ± 12.46years involving male
(17.9%) and female (82.1%) participants. There were no significant gender
differences in the scores of kinesiophobia, PI, PF, PC and self-efficacy. Pain
intensity was significantly proportional to kinesiophobia (r = 0.38), and
PC(r = 0.39). Better physical function was associated with high self-efficacy
(r = 0.35), low kinesiophobia (r = -0.43) and low PC(r = -0.28). Significant
predictive markers of PI included kinesiophobia (β = 0.24) and PC(β = 0.11) while
that of PF, included kinesiophobia (β = -0.41) and SE(β = 2.39).
CONCLUSIONS: Kinesiophobia and pain catastrophizing correlate and predict PI
significantly. Kinesiophobia and SE are significant correlates and predictors of 
PF among patients with knee osteoarthritis in Nigeria.



DOI: 10.1016/j.msksp.2018.11.014 
PMID: 30623891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. An evaluation of the impact of co-occurring anxiety and substance use disorder on
bipolar disorder illness outcomes in STEP-BD.

BACKGROUND: Anxiety disorder (AD) and substance use disorder (SUD) highly
co-occur with bipolar disorder (BD). AD and/or SUD co-occurrence is associated
with poorer clinical outcomes in BD. However, respective associations between AD 
and/or SUD diagnoses and BD outcomes require clarification. Baseline data from
the Systematic Treatment Enhancement Program for Bipolar Disorder (STEP-BD) were 
therefore utilized to investigate independent and simultaneous contributions of
ADs and SUDs on clinical variables in BD.
METHODS: Two latent factors, "pathological anxiety" and "substance use problems,"
were derived from presence/absence of lifetime AD and SUD diagnoses. Latent
dimensions' associations with clinical variables, obtained from the Affective
Disorders Evaluation, Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview and Range of 
Impaired Functioning, were estimated via structural equation modeling (SEM).
RESULTS: Modeled independently, pathological anxiety and substance use problems
were significantly associated with several variables. Yet when modeled
simultaneously, pathological anxiety's associations with functional impairment,
past-year rapid cycling, and past-year %time spent anxious and depressed remained
while most variables' associations with substance use problems became
non-significant. The only significant latent-factor interaction evidenced was for
age of BD onset.
LIMITATIONS: Analyses were limited to lifetime diagnoses and causality may not be
inferred given cross-sectional data.
CONCLUSIONS: ADs and SUDs impact on BD was mostly additive rather than
synergistic. Findings highlight the potentially understated importance of
treating inter-episodic anxiety in BD as it may exacerbate mood symptoms,
increasing functional impairment and risk for subsequent mood episodes.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.070 
PMCID: PMC6563327 [Available on 2020-03-01]
PMID: 30623826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Comorbid disorders as moderators of response to family interventions among
adolescents with bipolar disorder.

BACKGROUND: While family interventions have shown efficacy in improving mood
symptoms and family functioning in pediatric bipolar disorder, few studies have
examined the effects of comorbid psychiatric conditions on patients' symptomatic 
or functional responses to treatment.
METHODS: 145 adolescents with bipolar I or II disorder were randomly assigned to 
family-focused therapy (FFT-A) or a brief psychoeducational therapy (enhanced
care; EC) and followed over 2 years. Participants received pharmacotherapy for
the study's duration. We examined whether comorbid anxiety disorders,
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and disruptive behavior
disorders (DBDs; i.e., oppositional defiant and conduct disorder) predicted the
proportion of weeks that participants experienced mood symptoms during follow-up,
and whether comorbid disorders moderated the effects of treatment assignment on
mood symptoms and family conflict.
RESULTS: Comorbid anxiety was associated with a greater proportion of weeks with 
depressive symptoms, more severe (hypo)manic symptoms during follow-up, and
greater family conflict over the 2-year study. Comorbid ADHD was associated with 
a greater proportion of weeks with (hypo)manic symptoms, more severe (hypo)manic 
symptoms, and greater family conflict. Additionally, youth with comorbid ADHD who
received FFT-A had more favorable trajectories of (hypo)manic symptoms and family
functioning than youth with comorbid ADHD who received EC. Comorbid DBDs were
consistently associated with more severe depressive symptoms and greater family
conflict throughout the study.
LIMITATIONS: Randomization to treatments was not stratified on comorbid
disorders. The longitudinal trajectories of anxiety, attentional, and disruptive 
behavior symptoms were not examined.
CONCLUSIONS: The course of bipolar disorder in adolescents is strongly affected
by comorbid disorders. Future research should examine whether adolescents with
more complex presentations of bipolar disorder should be treated with different
or more intensive psychosocial protocols than adolescents without these
presentations.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.125 
PMCID: PMC6363856 [Available on 2020-03-01]
PMID: 30623821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Abnormalities of white matter microstructure in unmedicated patients with
obsessive-compulsive disorder: Changes after cognitive behavioral therapy.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is an effective treatment for
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Structural and functional white matter
defects may suggest a vital neurobiological basis of OCD. However, the effects of
CBT on white matter in OCD remain unknown.
OBJECTIVE: The aim was to investigate white matter changes and the effect of CBT 
on white matter in OCD patients.
METHODS: Fractional anisotropy (FA) maps were acquired using DTI. Participants
included 85 patients with OCD and 90 healthy controls. VBM was then performed to 
detect regions with significant group differences.
RESULTS: Obsessive-compulsive disorder patients exhibited significantly reduced
FA values in bilateral OFC, right cerebellum, and left SPG, while higher FA
values were observed in right PUT compared with healthy controls. Following CBT, 
OCD patients showed higher FA values in right MFG, left OFC, right cerebellum,
and left MTG, and decreased FA values in right PUT in comparison with
pretreatment. Furthermore, FA values in the left OFC of patients were
significantly positively correlated with the Y-BOCS and its associated
Compulsions subscale, and FA values in the right PUT were positively correlated
with Compulsions subscale. In addition, the percentage change in FA values in
left MTG was positively correlated with the percentage reduction in Compulsions
subscale, while the percentage change in FA values in left OFC and right PUT was 
negatively correlated with the percentage reductions in Obsessive and Compulsions
subscale, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate the abnormalities of white matter
microstructure in unmedicated patients with OCD. These abnormalities may be
partly reversed by CBT.



DOI: 10.1002/brb3.1201 
PMCID: PMC6379596
PMID: 30623612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Evidence for underuse and overuse of antidepressants in older adults: Results of 
a large population-based study.

OBJECTIVES: Depression is common among elderly people. However, diagnosis and
adequate treatment is frequently difficult. Research on underuse and overuse of
antidepressants in elderly persons is scarce. This study investigates the
utilization and appropriateness of pharmacological and psychological depression
treatment in a large cohort of community-dwelling adults.
METHODS: A subsample of 3117 participants (aged 55-85 y) of the third follow-up
(2008-2010) of the large population-based German ESTHER study was included.
Depression was assessed using the eight-item Patient Health Questionnaire
(PHQ-8). In the course of a home visit, study doctors collected complete
information on medication. Logistic regression analyses were conducted to
determine the relationship of depression with both underuse and overuse of
antidepressants. The analyses were then adjusted for socioeconomic variables,
psychosomatic comorbidities, and motivation to seek help.
RESULTS: One hundred sixty-three participants (5.2%; 95% confidence interval
[CI], 4.5-6.1) fulfilled the criteria for major depression. Underuse of
antidepressants was present in 126 depressed participants (77.3%; 70.1-83.5).
Persons who were motivated to seek help, who had an established depression
diagnosis, or who were taking more than five different medications had lower odds
of underuse. Anxiety was associated with higher odds for underuse. Overuse of
antidepressants (prescription without clinical indication) was found in 96 cases 
(41.7%; 35.3-48.4) of all antidepressant prescriptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Depression treatment in older adults is frequently insufficient; it 
appears to depend on diagnosis as well as the patients' motivation to seek help. 
Education regarding the diagnosis of depression in the elderly as well as
guidelines for appropriate treatment is needed.



DOI: 10.1002/gps.5047 
PMID: 30623499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415.Teacher responses to anxiety-related behaviours in students on the autism
spectrum.

BACKGROUND: At least 50% of students on the autism spectrum experience clinical
or subclinical levels of anxiety but there is scant research on how teachers
respond to anxiety in children on the spectrum.
AIMS: To compare teacher responses to anxiety-related behaviour in students who
do and do not have a diagnosis on the spectrum using the Teacher Responses to
Anxiety in Children (TRAC).
METHODS AND PROCEDURES: Teachers (N = 64), predominantly from mainstream primary 
schools, completed an online survey comprised of a demographic questionnaire and 
two versions of the TRAC, one for students without autism and one for students
with autism.
OUTCOMES AND RESULTS: Teachers report differences in the way they would likely
respond to anxiety-related behaviours observed in students with and without
autism. Teachers reported being more likely to use anxiety-promoting responses
for students with autism who are showing behaviours indicative of general and
separation anxiety, but not when they are showing behaviours indicative of social
anxiety. Whilst there was no significant difference in the overall likelihood of 
use of autonomy-promoting responses between groups, there were differences in the
likelihood of using specific autonomy-promoting responses dependent upon
diagnosis and type of anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Teachers report they are likely to respond
differently to anxiety-related behaviours of students on the autism spectrum but 
the impact of this on the behaviour of these students is yet to be determined.
Professional development is a priority to increase teacher knowledge about
anxiety-related behaviours in students with autism and the ways in which
teachers' responses may promote or reduce anxiety and autonomy.



DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2018.12.009 
PMID: 30622014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Discarding personal possessions increases psychophysiological activation in
patients with hoarding disorder.

Difficulty discarding is the core behavioral symptom of hoarding disorder (HD).
Patients with HD report greater subjective distress when discarding their own
possessions as compared to others' possessions. To date, no prior studies have
examined psychophysiological activation, an objective measure of anxious arousal,
during discarding among individuals with HD. The current study assessed
psychophysiological responses during a baseline resting period and two discarding
tasks, one involving personal possessions and the other involving matched control
("experimenter-owned") items in 52 patients with a primary diagnosis of HD.
Results showed that, compared to discarding control items, discarding personal
possessions increased skin conductance and heart rate and decreased end tidal
carbon dioxide. There were no differences in heart rate variability, respiratory 
sinus arrhythmia, and respiration rate between the two discarding tasks. Despite 
the fact that discarding increased psychophysiological arousal, self-reported HD 
symptoms (including difficulty discarding) failed to predict psychophysiological 
responses during the discarding tasks. The findings suggest that there may be
discordance between objective and subjective measures of hoarding-related
distress, and are discussed in terms of incorporating psychophysiological
measures into the assessment and treatment of HD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.163 
PMID: 30616116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Obsessive compulsive disorder with and without hoarding symptoms: Characterizing 
differences.

OBJECTIVE: In recent years there has been some ambiguity about the way hoarding
and OCD are related to each other. The present study examines the differences
between persons with OCD/hoarding and OCD/non-hoarding and examines which
characteristics are associated with the OCD/hoarding group. Information is
established about prevalences, socio-demographical characteristics, OCD and
related characteristics, OCD subtypes, comorbidity (depression, anxiety disorders
and PTSD) and personality traits.
METHODS: Data from baseline assessment of The Netherlands Obsessive Compulsive
Disorder Association (NOCDA) study are used. The NOCDA sample consists of 419
participants between 18 and 79 years of age, including participants with current 
or remitted full DSM-IV-TR criteria for OCD.
RESULTS: Results show that 58 persons (14.3%) are classified as persons with
OCD/hoarding and 349 persons (85,7%) are classified as persons with
OCD/non-hoarding. OCD/hoarding is independently associated with severity of
autism symptoms (p<.001), living without a partner (p<.05) and being less
conscientious (p<.05). Persons with OCD/hoarding are not associated with
childhood trauma (p=.31), PTSD (p=.91) and AD(H)D, inattentive type (p=.22) and
hyperactive type (p=.57).
LIMITATIONS: Causal interferences about associations between the risk indicators 
and hoarding symptoms were precluded since results were based on cross-sectional 
data.
CONCLUSION: This study confirmed differences between persons with OCD/hoarding
and persons with OCD/non-hoarding. The most relevant outcome of this study was
the association between persons with OCD/hoarding and the increased severity of
autism symptoms. These results provide a better understanding of persons with
OCD/hoarding and have the potential to improve treatment.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.115 
PMID: 30611063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418.The association between an anxiety disorder and cancer in medical history.

BACKGROUND: Cancer patients can feel depression and anxiety any time after a
cancer diagnosis. The Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD-7) is an instrument
for the assessment of anxiety. The main objective of this work was to compare
general anxiety levels between cancer survivors and individuals without a history
of cancer in a population-based study (LIFE-ADULT) with 10,000 participants.
METHODS: All participants (18-80 years) completed the GAD-7 and other
psychological and medical questionnaires. A score of 10 or greater for GAD-7 (of 
total 21) indicates a probable generalized anxiety disorder.
RESULTS: 954 participants reported a diagnosis of cancer in their medical
history. In the multivariate analysis an anxiety disorder was associated with
prior cancer diagnosis (OR: 1.8; 95% CI [1.4-2.4]), age -every additional year-
(OR: 0.983; [0.976-0.991]), female gender (OR: 1.8; [1.5-2.2]) and low
socioeconomic status (OR: 2.0; [1.7-2.5]) all p < 0.001. There were no
significant associations between general anxiety and other comorbidities, such as
myocardial infarction (OR: 1.0; p = 0.948), stroke (OR: 1.4; p = 0.237) or
diabetes (OR: 1.0; p = 0.326). There was also no significant difference in
anxiety disorder among cancer survivors regarding the time passed since the
initial cancer diagnosis (OR: 1.1; [0.6-1.9], p = 0.804 comparing 5-10 years
after a diagnosis of cancer vs. ≤5 years and OR: 0.6; [0.4-1.1], p = 0.107
comparing >10 vs. ≤5 years).
LIMITATIONS: This study has a cross-sectional character, therefore, causal
conclusions cannot be drawn.
CONCLUSION: Cancer survivors may require screening for anxiety disorders and
long-term professional psychosocial support.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.019 
PMID: 30611061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. A descriptive epidemiological study of disability prevalence attributed to
neurotic disorders in China.

This study estimated the prevalence, correlates, severity and functional
impairment of disabilities attributed to neurotic disorders in the Chinese
population. Data from a representative national sample of 2,526,145
non-institutionalized residents were obtained from the Second China National
Sample Survey on Disabilities (CNSSD) in 2006. The data were analyzed to estimate
prevalence, correlates, severity and functional impairment of disability
attributable to neurotic disorders by gender, age, region, and other key
socio-demographic and economic factors. The disability prevalence attributed to
neurotic disorders was 0.032% (805/2,526,145) in China. Women, rural residents,
unemployed job status, low education level and those who were divorced or widowed
showed higher prevalence rates than their counterparts. Proportions of mild,
moderate, severe and extremely severe of neurotic attributed disability only
accounted for 78.48%, 9.14%, 6.5% and 5.9%, respectively. Finally, these findings
provide evidence that, prevalence rates of disability attributable to neurotic
disorders vary greatly among different population groups and regions. Multiple
disabilities including disability attributable to neurotic disorders can bring
much more impairment to individuals than disability attributable to neurotic
disorder only.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.113 
PMID: 30611025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. The biological origins of rituals: An interdisciplinary perspective.

Ritual behavior is ubiquitous, marking animal motor patterns, normal and
psychopathological behavior in human individuals as well as every human culture. 
Moreover, formal features of rituals appear to be highly conserved along
phylogeny and characterized by a circular and spatio-temporal structure typical
of habitual behavior with internal repetition of non-functional acts and
redirection of attention to the "script" of the performance. A continuity, based 
on highly conserved cortico-striatal loops, can be traced from animal rituals to 
human individual and collective rituals with psychopathological compulsions at
the crossing point. The transition from "routinization" to "ritualization" may
have been promoted to deal with environmental unpredictability in non-social
contexts and, through motor synchronization, to enhance intra-group cohesion and 
communication in social contexts. Ultimately, ritual, following its biological
constraints exerts a "homeostatic" function on the environment (social and
non-social) under conditions of unpredictability.



DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2018.12.031 
PMID: 30610910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421.Higher Levels of Depression and Anxiety in Patients with Chronic Urticaria.

BACKGROUND Chronic urticaria (CU) is a common disease, characterized by the
development of wheals, angioedema, or both. CU reduces quality of life and can
also cause emotional distress. Studies addressing depression and anxiety in such 
patients are rare in the literature. The aim of this study was to determine the
relationship between urticaria symptoms and depression and anxiety in patients
with CU. MATERIAL AND METHODS The Hospital Anxiety-Depression Scale (HADS) was
used to evaluate depression and anxiety in patients with CU. We included 50
patients with CU and a control group of 60 healthy volunteers. Urticaria activity
score, medications, age, sex, comorbidities, occupation, and income of patients
were recorded. Depression and anxiety scores were evaluated between the patient
and the healthy groups. RESULTS The HADS questionnaire showed that 24 (48%)
subjects in the patient group had depressive symptoms and 24 (48%) had anxiety,
and both of these conditions were significantly more frequent than in controls
(p=0.002 and p=0.001). The mean anxiety and depression scores ±SD were 10.82±4.29
and 7.74±4.49 in the patient group and 6.42±3.02 and 4.85±3.26, in the control
group respectively (p=0.001). The mean score of the UAS ±SD was 23.14±13.40 and a
significant positive correlation between UAS and the anxiety and depression
scores was observed (r=0.400; p=0.004 and r=0.373; p=0.004, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS Our data demonstrated that depression and anxiety symptoms are more
common in patients with CU than in the control group. Therefore, we should pay
attention to the potential of mental comorbidities while managing patients with
CU.

DOI: 10.12659/MSM.912362 
PMCID: PMC6329254
PMID: 30609422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. A randomised placebo controlled clinical trial on the efficacy of Caralluma
fimbriata supplement for reducing anxiety and stress in healthy adults over eight
weeks.

BACKGROUND: This study investigated the efficacy of a succulent, Caralluma
fimbriata extract (CFE) in reducing anxiety and stress in healthy adults.
METHODS: An 8 week double-blind randomised clinical trial, in which 97 adults
self-reporting mild to moderate anxiety were given 500 mg b.d. CFE (n = 49), or
500 mg b.d. placebo (n = 48). Anxiety and stress were measured at baseline, week 
4, and week 8 to investigate the timing of treatment effect using the GAD-7,
Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), and 
salivary cortisol. Data were analysed using mixed ANOVAs on SPSS v.24.
RESULTS: Results indicated a significant reduction in anxiety and stress in both 
groups at week 4 and week 8. The reduction in the CFE group was significantly
greater (p < .05) than in the placebo group on the GAD-7 and PSS at week 4 and
week 8, and in Negative affect at week 4. Improvement in Positive affect was
greater in the CFE group than in the placebo group at week 8. Cortisol analysis
indicated that CFE may act through the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) axis,
showing statistically significant changes in males, but not in females.
LIMITATIONS: Self-reported instruments involve subjective interpretation thus
salivary cortisol was employed as a more objective measure. The study would
benefit from a larger sample and longer trial, and the inclusion of a wait-list
group to allow comparison between treatment and no treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate that CFE is superior to placebo in reducing
subclinical anxiety and stress over 8 weeks.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.062 
PMID: 30609411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423.Symptom hyper-expression in advanced cancer patients with anxiety and depression 
admitted to an acute supportive/palliative care unit.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to compare symptom expression in advanced
cancer patients with depression and anxiety and in patients with no such
symptoms.
METHODS: Secondary analysis of a previous study assessing the role of an acute
palliative supportive care unit (APSCU) in a comprehensive cancer center.
Patients completed the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) at admission
(T0) and 7 days after or at discharge (T7).
RESULTS: Three hundred-fourteen consecutive cancer patients admitted to the APSCU
were surveyed. Eighty-six and 66 patients improved their level of depression and 
anxiety, respectively (passing from ≥ 4 to 0-3, from T0 to T7), after that
palliative care intervention resulted in a significant improvement of the other
symptoms. Changes were statistically significant for both symptoms (P < 0.0005). 
Patients admitted for uncontrolled pain were more likely to be anxious, while
patients admitted for other symptoms or end-of-life care were more likely to be
depressed. The presence of anxiety and depression (≥ 4/10 on ESAS) was
significantly associated with a higher level of symptom expression at admission
and at T7 (P < 0.0005). In patients presenting both psychological symptoms,
symptom expression was significantly more relevant in comparison with patients
not reporting moderate-severe psychological symptoms. Pain and depression were
independently associated with anxiety at T0. Variables independently associated
with depression at T0 were drowsiness, appetite, and anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS: Psychological symptoms of ESAS concur to hyper-express some symptoms
and make symptom control more difficult. A clear association between anxiety and 
depression exists.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4624-0 
PMID: 30607679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424.Physicians' Knowledge and Attitude towards Mental Health in Saudi Arabia.

Background: Physicians working in Saudi Arabia belong to different countries and 
may have differences in knowledge and attitude towards psychiatry. We evaluated
non-psychiatric physician's knowledge and attitude towards psychiatric disorders,
such as anxiety and depression, in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Methods: A descriptive cross-sectional study design was used. The current
knowledge and attitude towards anxiety and depression of physicians were
determined by using a questionnaire. We distributed 180 study questionnaires at
various hospitals to be answered by physicians in the Riyadh Province of Saudi
Arabia. One hundred and forty-two completed questionnaires were included in the
study. The participants were divided into three groups: (1) 63(44.4%) general
practitioners (GPs), (2) 55 (38.7%) specialists and (3) 24 (16.9%) family
practitioners. Data were analysed using the chi-square, ANOVA and independent
sample t-test.
Results: GPs and specialists showed a negative attitude towards psychiatric
patients, but family practitioners showed a positive attitude. There were
statistically significant differences (p<0.05) in the knowledge regarding anxiety
and depression among the groups. The relationship between specialty and knowledge
was statistically significant (p<0.05) and the effect of first language is
insignificant (p>0.05).
Conclusion: Expansive enlightenment programmes, continued medical education and
inclusion of psychiatric posting in rotating residential internship programme
during undergraduate courses are required for physicians not only to fill the gap
in knowledge and attitude but also to improve their cognitive, communication and 
interpersonal skills.

DOI: 10.4314/ejhs.v28i6.12 
PMCID: PMC6308754
PMID: 30607094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425.Outcomes of telephone-delivered low-intensity cognitive behaviour therapy (LiCBT)
to community dwelling Australians with a recent hospital admission due to
depression or anxiety: MindStep™.

BACKGROUND: In 2006, the British government launched 'Improving Access to
Psychological Therapies' (IAPT), a low intensity cognitive behaviour therapy
intervention (LiCBT) designed to manage people with symptoms of anxiety and
depression in the community. The evidence of the effectiveness of IAPT has been
demonstrated in multiple studies from the UK, USA, Australia and other countries.
MindStep™ is the first adaptation of IAPT in Australia, delivered completely by
telephone, targeting people with a recent history of a hospital admission for
mental illnesses within the private health system. This paper reports on the
outcome of the first 17 months of MindStep™ implemented across Australia from
March 2016.
METHODS: This prospective observational study investigated the MindStep™ program 
in a cohort of clients with a recent hospitalisation for mental illnesses. The
study used quantitative methods to compare pre-post treatment clinical measures
(N = 680) using Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and the Generalised Anxiety 
Disorder (GAD-7). This study also included in-depth interviews with participants 
(N = 14) and coaches (N = 4) to determine the feasibility and acceptability of
the program.
RESULTS: Of the 867 clients referred to MindStep™, 757 had initial assessments by
phone making an enrolment rate of 87.3%. Following assessment, 680 commenced
treatment and of them, 427 (62.7%) completed treatment. According to
'per-protocol' analysis (N = 427), there was a large effect size for
post-treatment PHQ-9 (d = 1.03) and GAD-7 (d = 0.99) scores; reliable recovery
rate was 62% (95% CI: 57-68%). For intent-to-treat analysis using multiple
imputation (N = 680), effect sizes were also large for pre-post treatment change:
PHQ-9 (d = 0.78) and GAD-7 (d = 0.76). The reliable recovery rate was 49% (95%
CI: 45-54%). Qualitative findings supported these claims where participants were 
positive about MindStep™ and found the telephone delivery and use of mental
health coaches highly acceptable.
CONCLUSIONS: MindStep™ has demonstrated encouraging outcomes that suggest LiCBT
can be successfully delivered to people with a history of hospital admissions for
anxiety and depressive disorders and achieve target recovery rates of > 50%.
Other promising evaluation findings indicate the MindStep™ option is acceptable, 
feasible and safe within the stepped models of mental health care delivery in
Australia.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-018-1987-1 
PMCID: PMC6319009
PMID: 30606169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Default mode network alterations in individuals with high-trait-anxiety: An EEG
functional connectivity study.

BACKGROUND: Although several researches investigated Default Mode Network (DMN)
alterations in individuals with anxiety disorders, up to now no studies have
investigated DMN functional connectivity in non-clinical individuals with
high-trait-anxiety using quantitative electroencephalography (EEG). Here, the
main aim was to extend previous findings investigating the association between
trait anxiety and DMN EEG functional connectivity.
METHODS: Twenty-three individuals with high-trait-anxiety and twenty-four
controls were enrolled. EEG was recorded during 5 min of resting state (RS). EEG 
analyses were conducted by means of the exact Low-Resolution Electromagnetic
Tomography software (eLORETA).
RESULTS: Compared to controls, individuals with high-trait-anxiety showed a
decrease of theta connectivity between right medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and 
right posterior cingulate/retrosplenial cortex. A decrease of beta connectivity
was also observed between right mPFC and right anterior cingulate cortex.
Furthermore, DMN functional connectivity strength was negatively related with
STAI-T total score (i.e., lower connectivity was associated with higher trait
anxiety), even when controlling for potential confounding variables (i.e., sex,
age, and general psychopathology).
LIMITATIONS: Small sample size makes it difficult to draw definitive conclusions.
Furthermore, we did not assess state variation of anxiety, which make our
interpretation specific to trait anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our results suggest that high-trait-anxiety
individuals fail to synchronize DMN during RS, reflecting a possible top-down
cognitive control deficit. These results may help in the understanding of the
individual differences in functional brain networks associated with trait
anxiety, a crucial aim in the prevention and in the early etiology understanding 
of clinical anxiety and related sequelae.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.071 
PMID: 30605880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Mental Health Nurses Supporting the Routine Assessment of Anxiety of Older People
in Primary Care Settings: Insights from an Australian Study.

Anxiety in older age is a worldwide problem and co-associated with other mental
health problems, physical health conditions, disability, reduced quality of life 
and increased healthcare utilisation. Yet the symptoms of anxiety are often
unrecognised in older people, challenging early diagnosis and increasing the risk
of older people developing more chronic and disabling illness. This article
reports on research led by mental health nurses and a primary care nurse that
supported primary care practitioners to undertake a routine assessment of anxiety
in older people in Australia. The Geriatric Anxiety Inventory-Short Form was
incorporated into the annual, in-depth 75 years and older, health assessment that
is undertaken in primary care settings and funded by Australia's Medicare. An
initial feasibility study demonstrated good acceptance levels of the routine
assessment by the primary care practitioners. These findings suggest fertile
ground for the everyday use of the routine assessment in primary care settings in
Australia, with transferability internationally in low-, middle- and high-income 
global communities. Mental health nurses can play a key role in supporting
primary care nurses to recognise and respond to anxiety in older people. Illness 
prevention and health promotion activities are low cost and have the potential to
make a difference worldwide to the health of people across the lifespan.

DOI: 10.1080/01612840.2018.1517285 
PMID: 30605357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428.Neuroticism and health as individuals age.

Neuroticism and conscientiousness have emerged as key concepts in understanding
health and thriving as individuals age, but various conceptual misunderstandings 
and methodological deficiencies have impaired progress. Personality traits are
not analogous to health threats such as infectious microbes or dangerous
behaviors or environmental toxins; rather, they can capture biopsychosocial
processes across time. This article examines how healthy neuroticism and
unhealthy neuroticism play out in differing environments and how these concepts
can help clarify and explain the important variability in health and longevity
that emerges in middle age. Progress in utilizing personality to improve public
health ultimately will depend on the precise study and full specification of
causal models, including pathways across time and clear description of
unambiguous outcomes. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights
reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/per0000274 
PMID: 30604981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Psychological factors, prehabilitation and surgical outcomes: evidence and future
directions.

The pre-operative optimisation of comorbidities is increasingly recognised as an 
important element of the pre-operative pathway. These efforts have primarily
focused on physical comorbidities such as anaemia and the optimisation of
exercise and nutrition. However, there is a growing recognition of the importance
of psychological morbidity. Increasingly, evidence suggests that psychological
factors have an impact on surgical outcomes in both the short and long term.
Pre-operative anxiety, depression and low self-efficacy are consistently
associated with worse physiological surgical outcomes and postoperative quality
of life. This has led to the emergence of psychological prehabilitation and the
trimodal approach to prehabilitation, incorporating psychological intervention as
well as exercise and nutritional optimisation. However, there is currently
insufficient evidence to be sure that pre-operative psychological interventions
are of benefit, or which interventions are most effective, because their impact
has been mixed. There is an urgent need for high quality, contemporaneous
prospective trials with baseline psychological evaluation, well-described
interventions and agreement on the most appropriate psychological, quality of
life and physiological outcomes measures.



DOI: 10.1111/anae.14507 
PMID: 30604423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3, biochemical parameters and symptoms of depression
and anxiety in healthy individuals.

Growing evidence support the role of vitamin D in brain function and behavior.
This study investigated the relationship between 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 [25(OH)D3] 
levels, biochemical profile and symptoms of depression and anxiety in healthy
individuals. Symptoms of depression were assessed by the Beck Depression
Inventory (BDI) and anxiety was evaluated with the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory 
(STAI). Our sample included 36 individuals, mostly women 27(75%),
36.39 ± 9.72 years old, non-smokers 31(86.1%), body mass index of
26.57 ± 3.92 kg/m2, 27.95 ± 7.50% body fat. Participants were divided into those 
with 25(OH)D3 levels lower than 40 ng/mL (mean 28.16 ± 7.07) and equal or higher 
than 40 ng/mL (mean 53.19 ± 6.32). Those with lower 25(OH)D3 had higher levels of
triacylglycerol, triacylglycerol/high density lipoprotein (HDL) ratio, high
glucose and homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) index.
No changes were observed in sociodemographic variables, body composition,
inflammatory parameters and cortisol. Additionally, in the groups with low and
high 25(OH)D3 levels, STAI state, STAI trait and BDI scores were not
statistically different. Levels of 25(OH)D3 were inversely and independently
associated with glucose and HOMA-IR, but not associated with triacylglycerol,
depression and anxiety scores. Lower levels of 25(OH)D3 were associated with
dysfunction in glucose metabolism but not with depression and anxiety in healthy 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-018-0371-7 
PMID: 30604028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Mental Health Diagnoses, Symptoms, and Service Utilization in US Youth with
Perinatal HIV Infection or HIV Exposure.

Youth perinatally HIV infected (PHIV) or HIV exposed, but uninfected (PHEU), are 
aging into adolescence and adulthood with multiple complex risk factors for
mental health (MH) problems and poor MH treatment utilization. Our aims were to
estimate prevalence of MH diagnoses, clinically significant symptoms, and MH
treatment utilization among youth with PHIV and among PHEU youth, 10-22 years
old. We also aimed to identify correlates of diagnoses and treatment utilization.
Analyses of data from standardized interviews, behavioral assessments, and chart 
review of 551 youth revealed that 36% had a previous or current MH diagnosis,
with no significant HIV status group differences. Prevalence of clinically
significant symptoms was 15% for both groups, of whom a third had no diagnosis,
and half were not receiving treatment. Among youth with a current MH diagnosis,
those with PHIV had greater utilization of services than PHEU youth (67% vs. 51%;
p = 0.04). Factors associated with MH diagnoses and/or treatment utilization
included caregiver characteristics, age and sex of child, HIV status, and
stressful life events. Prevalence of MH diagnoses was higher than in the general 
population, but lower than in similar perinatally HIV-exposed cohorts, with some 
unmet service needs, particularly in PHEU youth. Family characteristics warrant
careful consideration in early diagnosis and treatment of MH problems among youth
affected by HIV.

DOI: 10.1089/apc.2018.0096 
PMCID: PMC6338457
PMID: 30601062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. A description of 17 animal hoarding case files from animal control and a humane
society.

This study describes 17 publicly available cases of animal hoarding, a special
manifestation of hoarding disorder. The cases, which included court documents,
animal service documents, photographs, and newspaper clippings, were reviewed by 
Masters-level clinicians and a veterinarian in private practice. The veterinarian
rated the animals in the case files for possible neglect. Over half of the homes 
had signs of object hoarding. The most commonly hoarded animals were cats, dogs, 
and rabbits. The majority of animals in the cases reviewed required veterinary
care. Individuals with animal hoarding often lack insight about the condition of 
their animals and require community intervention.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.127 
PMID: 30599440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Affect and worry during a checking episode: A comparison of individuals with
symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder, anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa,
body dysmorphic disorder, illness anxiety disorder, and panic disorder.

Checking behavior (CB) occurs in a variety of disorders such as
obsessive-compulsive (OCD), body dysmorphic (BDD), illness anxiety (IA), and
panic disorder (PD), as well as anorexia (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN).
Etiological models of these disorders - with the exception of those for PD -
postulate that CB mainly occurs in situations characterized by negative affect
and serves to regulate it. We aimed to test these assumptions: N = 386
individuals with a self-reported diagnosis of one of the disorders rated their
affect at baseline, directly before a remembered CB episode, during, immediately 
afterwards, and 15 and 60 minutes afterwards, and rated their endorsement of
different functions of CB. The results show that transdiagnostically negative
affect is significantly higher before CB compared to baseline, and is
significantly reduced from before CB to all post-CB assessments. Reduction of
negative affect and Attainment of certainty were the sole functions predicting
the affective course during CB, and most prominently reported
transdiagnostically. Assumptions of the etiological models were confirmed,
suggesting that exposure and ritual prevention should be examined across
disorders. As attainment of certainty seems to be predictive for the course of
CB, this might be targeted in cognitive interventions.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.132 
PMID: 30599438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACE) in outpatients with anxiety and depressive
disorders and their association with psychiatric and somatic comorbidity and
revictimization. Cross-sectional observational study.

BACKGROUND: This study aims to establish prevalence of Adverse Childhood
Experiences (ACE) and their association with somatic comorbidity and adult
adverse events (AAE) in outpatients with anxiety or depressive disorders.
METHODS: Cross-sectional observational design. Specialty mental health
outpatients classified with DSM-IV-TR anxiety or depressive disorder filled-out
the ACE-IQ and the AAE-IQ. T-tests, ANOVA, logistic regressions andChi-square
analyses were performed and stratified for ACE score ≥4(high) versus ACE <4(low).
Gender differences were explored.
RESULTS: From May 2015 -November 2016, in 298 consecutive patients 77.2% reported
at least one ACE, 58.7% reported multiple ACE (mean 2.92). Scores were highest in
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and in case of comorbid mental disorders.
Somatic comorbidity was not associated with ACE-scores. AAE scores were
significantly (t = -9.33, p < .001) higher in the high ACE-group (M = 4.09
SD = 2.42) versus the low-ACE group (M = 1.63 SD = 1.70), indicating general
revictimization. An association between sexual ACE and sexual revictimization was
found as well (χ2 = 86.14, p < .001).The effects did not differ for males and
females.
CONCLUSIONS: ACE and AAE are highly prevalent in depressive and anxiety disorders
PTSD and psychiatric comorbidity are associated with higher scores, somatic
comorbidity is not. Indications for general and sexual revictimization are shown.
Further research is needed.
LIMITATIONS: Selection bias may have influenced results on somatic comorbidity,
as patients with obvious somatic comorbidity usually get referred to other health
services. The generalisability of the results may be limited as non-Dutch
speaking immigrants were excluded.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.096 
PMID: 30599369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale-Anxiety subscale (HADS-A) and The
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) accuracy for anxiety disorders detection in 
drug-resistant mesial temporal lobe epilepsy patients.

BACKGROUND: Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis (MTLE-HS) is
the most prevalent type of surgically remediable epilepsy and highly associated
with psychiatric comorbidities. This study aimed to evaluate Hospital anxiety and
depression scale-anxiety subscale (HADS-A) and The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory 
- Trait subscale (STAI-T) accuracy for detection of anxiety disorders in patients
with drug-resistant MTLE-HS.
METHODS: One hundred three consecutive patients with drug-resistant MTLE-HS were 
enrolled. Diagnosis was based on the anamnesis, neurological examination,
video-electroencephalogram (VEEG) analyses, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Psychiatric interviews were based on DSM-IV-TR criteria and ILAE Commission of
Psychobiology classification as a gold standard; HADS-A and STAI-T were used as
psychometric diagnostic tests, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves
were used to determine the optimal threshold scores.
RESULTS: The areas under the curve (AUCs) were higher than 0.7 (0.6-0.8) for both
scales. The STAI-T cutoff point of ˃53 and the HADS-A cutoff point of ˃7 showed
both around of 80% (44.4-97.7) sensitivity and 80% (66.9-86.9) and 60%
(46.5-68.6) of specificity, respectively. In this sample the prevalence of
anxiety disorders was 11.7% and both scales showed a high negative predictive
value such as 96% (87.1-99.0) but low positive predictive value such as 30%
(22.1-45.2) and 20% (15.0-27.2) respectively.
LIMITATIONS: The small number of cases in the diagnostic population; the results 
are only applied to drug resistant MTLE-HS; the psychiatric diagnosis were not
based on a structured psychiatric interview; possible observer bias in 7
illiterate patients; the antidepressant treatment was not controlled.
CONCLUSIONS: In MTLE-HS, STAI-T and HADS-A had a similar and low positive
predictive value and high negative predictive value. The implications for the
HADS-A and STAI-T usefulness for anxiety disorders screening in patients with
other epilepsies types deserve further investigations. If replicated in other
populations, these findings may have important relevance for the presurgical
screening of anxiety disorders in MTLE-HS patients who are candidates to epilepsy
surgery.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.072 
PMID: 30599368  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Home-delivered attention bias modification training via smartphone to improve
attention control in sub-clinical generalized anxiety disorder: A randomized,
controlled multi-session experiment.

BACKGROUND: Mogg and Bradley (2016) proposed that attentional bias (to threat
stimuli) among patients with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) may be associated
with the top-down attention control process. Additionally, some scholars (e.g.,
Enock & McNally, 2013) have designed mobile applications to enable patients to
engage in home-delivered attentional bias modification (HD-ABM); however, many
problems related to these training systems have not yet been addressed.
METHOD: A total of 82 participants (61 women, mean age = 21.47 y) who received
GAD diagnoses were randomly assigned to an HD-ABM (n = 30), placebo training
(n = 30), or waiting list (n = 22) group. Both the HD-ABM and placebo groups were
trained with the attention training application (through Android phones three
times a day for four weeks).
RESULTS: (1) All measures of participants' self-reported symptoms (except for
trait anxiety) were significantly lower in Week 4 and in the follow-up. (2)
Attentional network test (ANT) results demonstrated that all participants'
alerting scores significantly increased by Week 4. (3) Participants in the HD-ABM
and placebo groups demonstrated significant increases in their self-reported
attention control scores, decreases in their attention bias index (ABI) scores,
and progress in their executive control abilities.
LIMITATIONS: Self-report scales may have been insufficient for measuring
effectiveness in the present study.
CONCLUSIONS: This study helps to elucidate the mechanism underlying changes in
attention processes after HD-ABM training implemented through a mobile
application in GAD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.118 
PMID: 30599367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Comparative validity and responsiveness of PHQ-ADS and other composite
anxiety-depression measures.

BACKGROUND: Composite measures that assess the overall burden of anxiety and
depressive symptoms have been infrequently evaluated in the same study. The
objective of this study was to compare the validity and responsiveness of the
Patient Health Questionnaire Anxiety-Depression Scale (PHQ-ADS) and other
composite anxiety-depression measures.
METHODS: The sample comprised 256 primary care patients enrolled in a telecare
trial of chronic musculoskeletal pain and comorbid depression and/or anxiety.
Measures included the PHQ-ADS; the 8-item and 4-item depression and anxiety
scales from the PROMIS profiles; the PHQ-anxiety-depression scale (PHQ-4); the
SF-36 Mental Health scale; and the SF-12 Mental Component Summary scale.
Correlations among these measures and health-related quality of life measures
were examined. Responsiveness was evaluated by standardized response means, area 
under the curve (AUC) analyses, and treatment effect sizes in the trial.
RESULTS: Convergent and construct validity was supported by strong correlations
of the composite depression-anxiety measures with one another and moderate
correlations with health-related quality of life measures, respectively. All
composite measures differentiated patients who were better at 3 months, whereas
the PHQ-ADS and PHQ-4 also distinguished the subgroup that had worsened. AUCs for
composite measures were generally similar, whereas treatment effect sizes were
largest for the PHQ-ADS.
LIMITATIONS: The study sample was predominantly male veterans enrolled from
primary care who had chronic musculoskeletal pain and moderate levels of
depression and anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS: Composite depression and anxiety scales are valid and responsive
measures that may be useful as outcomes in research and clinical practice.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.098 
PMID: 30599366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Early cognitive processes in OCD: An ERP study.

BACKGROUND: Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is characterized by persistent,
intrusive, and distressing obsessions and/or compulsions and is associated with
marked impairments in quality of life. The goal of the present study was to
examine initial stages of information processing, specifically, perceptual and
attention orientation phases that precede response preparation in OCD.
METHODS: The P3 event-related potential (ERP) component was used as a measure of 
early cognitive processes of visual stimulus perception. ERPs were recorded while
38 participants diagnosed with OCD and 38 healthy controls performed a passive
visual oddball task with neutral and angry schematic faces.
RESULTS: OCD participants demonstrated significantly enhanced P3 amplitude over
bilateral parietal areas in response to neutral stimuli that activate basic
primary perceptual processes. Emotional valence reduced this effect such that OCD
patients did not differ from healthy controls in P3 amplitude under the angry
stimuli condition.
LIMITATIONS: Patients in this study were noncomorbid and unmedicated partially
limiting the generalizability of the results.
CONCLUSIONS: Our hypothesis of altered early perceptual processes in OCD was
supported. These alterations, specific to OCD and not anxiety and depression
symptoms, may represent distracted primary cognitive processes in OCD, possibly
serving as a basic source for compulsion initiation.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.109 
PMID: 30599365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Efficacy of intravenous ketamine treatment in anxious versus nonanxious unipolar 
treatment-resistant depression.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect of high baseline anxiety on response to ketamine
versus midazolam (active placebo) in treatment-resistant depression (TRD).
METHODS: In a multisite, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 99 subjects with
TRD were randomized to one of five arms: a single dose of intravenous ketamine
0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1.0 mg/kg, or midazolam 0.045 mg/kg. The primary outcome measure
was change in the six-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD6). A linear
mixed effects model was used to examine the effect of anxious depression baseline
status (defined by a Hamilton Depression Rating Scale Anxiety-Somatization score 
≥7) on response to ketamine versus midazolam at 1 and 3 days postinfusion.
RESULTS: N = 45 subjects had anxious TRD, compared to N = 54 subjects without
high anxiety at baseline. No statistically significant interaction effect was
found between treatment group assignment (combined ketamine treatment groups
versus midazolam) and anxious/nonanxious status on HAMD6 score at either days 1
or 3 postinfusion (Day 1: F(1, 84) = 0.02, P = 0.88; Day 3: F(1, 82) = 0.12,
P = 0.73).
CONCLUSION: In contrast with what is observed with traditional antidepressants,
response to ketamine may be similar in both anxious and nonanxious TRD subjects. 
These pilot results suggest the potential utility of ketamine in the treatment of
anxious TRD.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22875 
PMID: 30597688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Prevalence of mood and anxiety disorders during pregnancy: A case-control study
with a large sample size.

This study aimed to compare pregnant and non-pregnant women in terms of the
current prevalence of mood and anxiety. The study sample included 1154 women
evaluated on the first day postpartum and 328 control subjects. Mood and anxiety 
disorders were determined by structured psychiatric interview. The prevalence
rate of any mood or anxiety disorder was 18.2% during pregnany. Generalized
anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder and comorbidity
among anxiety disorders were more prevalent during pregnancy compared to the
control subjects. The present results suggest that pregnant women may be at
increased risk of depression and anxiety disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.129 
PMID: 30597383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. The neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio and platelet-lymphocyte ratio in adolescent
obsessive-compulsive disorder: Does comorbid anxiety disorder affect inflammatory
response?

Recent adult etiologic studies indicated evidence linking increased inflammatory 
parameters with psychiatric disorders. The neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio and
platelet-lymphocyte ratio are easily obtainable clinical markers of inflammation 
and have been found to be increased in various medical and mental disorders. In
this study, we aimed to investigate the neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio and
platelet-lymphocyte ratio in adolescents with obsessive-compulsive disorder
(OCD). Secondarily, the effect of comorbid anxiety disorder with OCD on the
inflammatory response was investigated. Sixty drug-naïve adolescents with OCD
aged 12 to 18 years were enrolled in the patient group. Twenty-three of the OCD
group had comorbid anxiety disorder (AD) and 37 had no comorbidities. One hundred
twenty-eight adolescents in the same age range with no psychiatric disorders were
recruited as the healthy control group. The severity of OCD symptoms was
evaluated using the Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale. There were 
statistically significant differences in the neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio, white
blood cell, neutrophil, and platelet counts among the three groups, even after
adjusting for age and sex. The adolescents with OCD and AD had the highest
neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio and white blood cell counts. A comorbid anxiety
disorder diagnosis in addition to obsessive-compulsive disorder may increase the 
inflammatory response.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.131 
PMID: 30597382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Prevalence of anxiety disorder among older adults in Spain: A meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: Anxiety disorders are recognized as one of the most prevalent mental 
disorders in late-life. However, the prevalence of anxiety disorders in older
Spanish people has not yet been determined. The aim was to review epidemiological
studies systematically to calculate the overall prevalence of anxiety in Spanish 
older adults by using meta-analytic techniques.
METHODS: We searched relevant published studies in electronic databases up to
January 2018 providing data on the prevalence of anxiety among people aged 65+ 
years in Spain. Overall anxiety prevalence estimates were calculated using
random-effects models. Sources of heterogeneity were explored by means of
univariate meta-regressions.
RESULTS: A total of 9 studies were included in the meta-analysis (N = 12,577).
Pooled overall prevalence of anxiety was 11% (95% confidence interval (CI):
6%-18%) representing 1958,471 people aged 65+  (95%CI: 1068,257-3204,771). Point,
12-month and lifetime prevalence of anxiety disorders were 12%, 6% and 19%,
respectively.
LIMITATIONS: We detected a small publication bias effect for life-time prevalence
of anxiety. The use of different diagnostic methods across the studies would have
required separate analyzes.
CONCLUSION: Some heterogeneity was found across studies, probably due to
different methodological issues. Overall, the pooled prevalence of anxiety
disorders in Spanish older adults was lower than that observed in other
countries. Due to the negative consequences of anxiety disorders in older adults,
detection and treatment should be a priority in this population.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.087 
PMID: 30597303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Spatial complexity of brain signal is altered in patients with generalized
anxiety disorder.

BACKGROUND: Is it healthy to be chaotic? Recent studies have argued that mental
disorders are associated with more orderly neural activities, corresponding to a 
less flexible functional system. These conclusions were derived from altered
temporal complexity. However, the relationship between spatial complexity and
health is unknown, although spatial configuration is of importance for normal
brain function.
METHODS: Based on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data, we
used Sample entropy (SampEn) to evaluate the altered spatial complexity in
patients with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD; n = 47) compared to healthy
controls (HCs; n = 38) and the relationship between spatial complexity and
anxiety level.
RESULTS: Converging results showed increased spatial complexity in patients with 
GAD, indicating more chaotic spatial configuration. Interestingly, inverted-U
relationship was revealed between spatial complexity and anxiety level,
suggesting complex relationship between health and the chaos of human brain.
LIMITATIONS: Anxiety-related alteration of spatial complexity should be verified 
at voxel level in a larger sample and compared with results of other indices to
clarify the mechanism of spatial chaotic of anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS: Altered spatial complexity in the brain of GAD patients mirrors
inverted-U relationship between anxiety and behavioral performance, which may
reflect an important characteristic of anxiety. These results indicate that
SampEn is a good reflection of human health or trait mental characteristic.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.107 
PMID: 30597300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. The relationship between attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, bipolarity and
mixed features in major depressive patients: Evidence from the BRIDGE-II-Mix
Study.

OBJECTIVE: This study primarily focused on the relationship between comorbid
attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), mixed features and bipolarity in
major depressive patients.
METHODS: The sample comprised 2777 patients with Major Depressive Episode (MDE)
enrolled in a multicentre, multinational study originally designed to assess
different definitions of mixed depression. Socio-demographic, familial and
clinical characteristics were compared in patients with (ADHD + ) and without
(ADHD-) comorbid ADHD.
RESULTS: Sixty-one patients (2.2%) met criteria for ADHD. ADHD was associated
with a higher number of (hypo)manic symptoms during depression. Mixed depression 
was more represented in ADHD + patients than in ADHD- using both DSM-5 and
experimental criteria. Differences were maintained after removing overlapping
symptoms between (hypo)mania and ADHD. ADHD in MDE was also associated with a
variety of clinical and course features such as onset before the age of 20,
first-degree family history of (hypo)mania, past history of
antidepressant-induced (hypo)manic switches, higher number of depressive and
affective episodes, atypical depressive features, higher rates of bipolarity
specifier, psychiatric comorbidities with eating, anxiety and borderline
personality disorders.
LIMITATIONS: The study was primarily designed to address mixed features in ADHD, 
with slightly reduced sensitivity to the diagnosis of ADHD. Other possible
diagnostic biases due to heterogeneity of participating clinicians.
CONCLUSIONS: In a sample of major depressive patients, the comorbid diagnosis of 
current ADHD is associated with bipolar diathesis, mixed features, multiple
psychiatric comorbidity and a more unstable course. Further prospective studies
are necessary to confirm the possible mediating role of temperamental mood
instability and emotional dysregulation in such a complex clinical presentation.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.089 
PMID: 30597295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Dynamic functional abnormalities in generalized anxiety disorders and their
increased network segregation of a hyperarousal brain state modulated by
insomnia.

BACKGROUND: Insomnia is frequently accompanied by the generalized anxiety
disorder (GAD) but mostly fMRI studies investigated their aberrant functional
connectivity (FC) without this issue. Recently, dynamic FC approach is prevailing
to capture the time-varying fluctuations of spontaneous brain activities.
Nevertheless, it is unclear how the dynamic FC characteristics are altered by
insomnia in GAD.
METHODS: We acquired resting state fMRI and neuropsychological tests for the 17
comorbid GAD with insomnia (GAD/IS), 15 GAD and 24 healthy controls (HC). Then,
based on the sliding window correlations, we estimated distinct brain states and 
statistically compared their dynamic properties. Further combining with graph
theory, their network properties of each state among groups were accessed.
Lastly, we examined associations between abnormal parameters and
neuropsychological tests.
RESULTS: We identified four brain states but did not observe significance on the 
state transitions. The mean dwell time and fraction of one globally hypoactive
state accounted for high proportion of brain activities were significantly
different (GAD > HC > GAD/IS). Meanwhile, we found gradual decreases in a brain
state representing slight sleep/drowsiness (HC > GAD/IS > GAD). Additionally, we 
observed the GAD/IS patients had significantly increased network segregation and 
posterior cingulate cortex in a hyperarousal state, as well as significant
associations with anxiety and insomnia severity.
LIMITATIONS: The influences of depression on dynamic FC properties in GAD are
unclear yet and more subjects should be recruited.
CONCLUSIONS: These results provide new insights about the temporal features in
GAD and offer potential biomarkers to evaluate the impacts of insomnia.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.079 
PMID: 30597294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. The Effect of Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality on Inducing Anxiety for
Exposure Therapy: A Comparison Using Heart Rate Variability.

Claustrophobia is an anxiety disorder characterized by the fear of enclosed
spaces. Although medication treatment can effectively control symptoms, the
effects quickly disappear once medication is discontinued. Many studies have
shown that combining psychotherapy and medication is more efficacious than solely
using medication. However, the weaknesses of the traditional psychotherapy are
that it is time-consuming and expensive. Alternatively, vivo exposure therapy is 
proposed in which anxiety is gradually triggered with stimuli. Targeting
claustrophobia is diagnosed using the traditional method, and this study
established virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) environments
consistent with claustrophobic characteristics, comparing the two using an
experimental process to examine whether VR and AR environments are equally
capable of triggering anxiety in participants. This study further analysed the
efficacies of VR and AR by measuring changes in participant's heart rates
variability (HRV) and examining data from survey questionnaires. HRV results
indicated that the proposed VR system and AR system were both able to trigger
anxiety. Furthermore, the AR environment produced a stronger experience for the
participants and caused physiological reactions more evident than those caused by
the VR environment. Regarding the anxiety questionnaire, the participants
suggested that their anxiety was significantly higher in the VR environment than 
in the AR environment.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/6357351 
PMCID: PMC6286749
PMID: 30595830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447.Combined fluvoxamine and extended-release methylphenidate improved treatment
response compared to fluvoxamine alone in patients with treatment-refractory
obsessive-compulsive disorder: A randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled
study.

More effective, tolerable interventions for treatment-refractory
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are needed. Preliminary findings encourage
optimism that methylphenidate augmentation may be of benefit in the treatment of 
OCD. To test modulator methylphenidate (MPH) of extended-release formulations
(MPH-ER) a safe and effective add-on therapy for refractory OCD, a pilot
randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial was conducted at an
outpatient, single-center academic setting. Participants included 44 adults with 
serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI) treatment-refractory OCD and receiving a
stable fluvoxamine pharmacotherapy with Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale
(Y-BOCS) scores higher than 20. Data were analyzed in the intention-to-treat
sample. All subjects were randomized into two parallel groups to receive
fluvoxamine (250 mg daily) plus MPH-ER (36 mg daily) or fluvoxamine (250 mg
daily) plus identical placebo tablets under double-blind conditions and followed 
for 8 weeks. Forty-four patients (29 [66%] men), with a mean (SD) age of 24.7 (6)
years participated; with a mean (SD) duration of episode 5.7 (3) were randomized 
and forty-one finished the trial. In the intention-to-treat analysis, the
improvement in the Y-BOCS total score and Y-BOCS obsession subscale score was
more prominent in the fluvoxamine and MPH-ER group compared with those receiving 
placebo (P < .001). Additionally, cumulative response rates were higher in the
MPH-ER vs placebo groups (59% vs 5%; P  < .001). MPH-ER was well tolerated; No
subjects dropped out due to side effects. In summary, combined treatment with
MPH-ER demonstrated an enhanced clinical rate of response compared to placebo.
Further trials should examine MPH-ER efficacy in a larger sample.



DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2018.12.010 
PMID: 30595354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Dysfunctional beliefs in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder and
depression as assessed with the Beliefs Questionnaire (BQ).

There is an ongoing debate about the specificity of dysfunctional beliefs in
patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) as some of these beliefs seem
to be relevant in depressed patients as well. The present study aimed to
elucidate the specificity of dysfunctional beliefs using the newly developed
Beliefs Questionnaire (BQ). A combination of an online assessment and clinical
interviews was carried out. One hundred thirty OCD patients (M = 38.7 years; 68% 
women) were compared to 85 patients with depression (M = 36.6 years; 75% women)
and 220 nonclinical controls (M = 38.9 years; 71% women) on the BQ, which
contains 13 items tapping cognitive beliefs. The BQ was validated against the
Obsessive Beliefs Questionnaire (OBQ). Patients with OCD and depression scored
higher on the BQ compared to nonclinical controls. OCD patients displayed higher 
values on overestimation of threat and the fear of becoming insane. Correlation
between BQ and OBQ total scores was high (r = 0.751), supporting the validity of 
the new scale. Our results show that two beliefs are OCD-specific. However, the
BQ covers mainly transdiagnostic features and should be replicated with the
inclusion of an anxiety disorder sample.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.070 
PMID: 30594759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Individual OCD-provoking stimuli activate disorder-related and self-related
neuronal networks in fMRI.

For patients with Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD), whose triggers are highly 
idiosyncratic, individual stimulus material has been used in several fMRI
studies. This study aims at comparing individual to standardized picture sets and
at investigating a possible overlap of the former with the self-referential
neuronal network. During fMRI-scanning, 17 inpatients with OCD and 17 healthy
controls were exposed to pictures of their personal triggers, photographed in
their domestic environments, to standardized pictures designed to provoke OCD
symptoms, and to neutral pictures. Whole-brain analyses were calculated and the
pictures were rated by both patients and controls with respect to valence,
arousal, and coping. Patients rated the individualized stimuli lower in valence
and coping and higher in arousal compared to controls, and also compared to
standardized OCD- and neutral stimuli. The individual stimuli elicited neuronal
activity in the cingulate cortex, hippocampus, insula, middle frontal/precentral 
gyrus, superior/inferior parietal lobe, and precuneus, while no group difference 
was detected by the standardized OCD-stimuli. In conclusion, individual picture
sets facilitate the detection of neuronal activity, but the results might be
confounded due to the overlap with the network of self-referential processing and
memory retrieval. The use of individual symptom-provoking and individual neutral 
stimuli would therefore be optimal.



DOI: 10.1016/j.pscychresns.2018.12.008 
PMID: 30594423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Role of sleep deprivation in the causation of postpartum obsessive-compulsive
disorder.

First-onset or recurrence of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is common after 
childbirth. Postpartum OCD can occur alone or in combination with other
psychiatric disorders such as mood and anxiety disorders. Putative etiological
mechanisms involve consideration of genetic factors, alterations in the serotonin
system secondary to changes in levels of gonadal hormones, rise in oxytocin,
hypothalamic-pituitaryadrenal axis hyperactivity, and neuroinflammation. Sleep
deprivation arising from a host of diverse factors is common after delivery in
women with postpartum OCD. The author suggests that sleep deprivation may play a 
critical role in the etiology of postpartum OCD. Clinical and research
implications of this hypothesis are discussed.



DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2018.10.016 
PMID: 30593425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451.Individual differences in anxiety and fear learning: The role of working memory
capacity.

Anxiety disorders are characterised by the perception of fear and threat in the
presence of stimuli that are neutral or ambiguous. Attempts in previous research 
to explain the relationship between anxiety and fear learning have been
inconsistent, possibly due to the influence of an unmeasured mechanism that
mediates the relationship between them. Working memory capacity has been
suggested as one such mechanism. The current study investigated the influence of 
anxiety-based individual differences upon associative fear learning, while
accounting for individual differences in working memory. We hypothesised that
individuals high in both anxiety and working memory would show unimpaired fear
learning whereas individuals high in anxiety and low in working memory would
exhibit dysfunctional fear learning. Sixty participants completed a battery of
anxiety and working memory tests, as well as a fear conditioning experiment that 
tested for blocking, conditioned inhibition and fear discrimination. We found
that anxious individuals were more likely to show impaired fear discrimination
only if they also had a low working memory capacity. Furthermore, anxiety was
particularly associated with poorer learning about safety cues. Such
relationships were not observed for blocking and conditioned inhibition. These
results suggest that the relationship between anxiety and fear learning is
complex and warrants further investigation of the potential mediating role of
higher-order cognitive faculties.



DOI: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2018.12.006 
PMID: 30590285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452.The efficacy of biofeedback approaches for obsessive-compulsive and related
disorders: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Biofeedback is applied to target excessive and/or deficient physiological signals
to help patients identifying and self-managing their symptoms. Biofeedback has
been employed in psychiatric disorders, including obsessive-compulsive disorder
(OCD), mainly by using neural signals - neurofeedback. Recently, OCD has been
integrated into the obsessive-compulsive and related disorders (OCD&RD) category 
(body dysmorphic, hoarding, trichotillomania/hair-pulling, and
excoriation/skin-picking disorders). The efficacy of biofeedback for OCD&RD is
still unknown. Our work provides a complete overview of publications assessing
the therapeutic efficacy of biofeedback in OCD&RD with a systematic review and
meta-analysis. We found ten studies involving 102 OCD participants (three
randomized controlled trials) mostly applying neurofeedback (one publication used
thermal biofeedback). Five neurofeedback studies were selected for meta-analysis 
(89 patients; two randomized controlled trials). The overall effect size within
the treatment group varied between medium to large, but high heterogeneity and
inconsistency values were found. The methodological quality was low indicating a 
high risk of bias. In conclusion, a beneficial effect of neurofeedback for OCD
patients was found but also critical limitations on methodology, high
heterogeneity among studies, and a putative reporting bias. Future research
following high-quality guidelines should be conducted to address the efficacy of 
biofeedback approaches for OCD&RD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.096 
PMID: 30590278  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. When patients with OCD decide to seek, and not to avoid harm: The problem of
suicidality in OCD.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a chronic, distressing, and disabling
condition associated with a high risk of suicidal behavior and death by suicide. 
In this study, the authors describe two cases of OCD patients who developed
recurrent suicidal behaviors in response to stressful life events that appeared
to "confirm" their obsessive beliefs (termed "confirmatory events"). In both
cases, the authors used accepted strategies for treating suicidality in other
contexts (such as antidepressants, lithium, and electroconvulsive therapy), which
proved unsuccessful. Future studies should investigate personalized strategies to
treat suicidality and prevent suicide in OCD patients.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.2018.82.4.360 
PMID: 30589583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454.Implications of comorbid OCD on PTSD treatment: A case study.

Given the high degree of diagnostic overlap and limited empirical literature
surrounding the comorbidity between posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), appropriately conceptualizing the
relationship between the comorbid symptoms and their impact on the treatment
process can be challenging. This is especially true when the symptoms of the two 
disorders become functionally connected, with each symptom set maintaining the
other. This article details the case of a veteran with comorbid PTSD and OCD who 
sought intensive trauma-focused treatment within the U.S. Veterans Health
Administration. The dynamic relationship between his PTSD and OCD symptoms is
described, along with its impact on trauma-focused treatment and the ability to
maintain treatment gains. A novel attempt to integrate empirically based
treatment strategies for OCD into intensive PTSD treatment, targeting both sets
of symptoms simultaneously, is presented, along with implications for
conceptualization and treatment of this comorbidity.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.2018.82.4.344 
PMID: 30589581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455.Metacognitive therapy for obsessive-compulsive disorder: A case report.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a common and disabling disorder. The most 
effective psychological treatment for OCD is currently exposure with response
prevention (ERP). Although ERP is an effective therapy, recovery rates are
relatively modest, so there is room for improvement. Metacognitive therapy (MCT) 
for OCD focuses primarily on modifying metacognitive beliefs about obsessions and
compulsions, instead of their actual content. Based on a few small preliminary
studies, there are some indications for the effectiveness of MCT for OCD. In the 
present article, the metacognitive model and treatment are discussed, as well as 
empirical support for its efficacy. Because detailed descriptions of the
application of this treatment modality for patients with OCD are scarce, the
authors report a case study to illustrate the content of this form of therapy.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.2018.82.4.375 
PMID: 30589580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456.The SPACE program, a parent-based treatment for childhood and adolescent OCD: The
case of Jasmine.

Current evidence-based treatments for obsessive-compulsive disorder in children
and adolescents include cognitive-behavioral therapy, specifically exposure and
response prevention, and psychopharmacological treatments. Despite the
established efficacy of these treatments, many youth do not benefit from them,
and barriers, including lack of motivation and resistance to treatment, prevent
many youth from even attempting them. Parent-based treatments offer an
alternative approach to child-based therapy. SPACE (Supportive Parenting for
Anxious Childhood Emotions) is a parent-based treatment that focuses on
systematically reducing family accommodation, or the changes that parents make to
their own behavior to help a child avoid or alleviate distress related to the
disorder, while increasing supportive responses to the child's symptoms. This
article presents the theoretical background for SPACE and illustrates its
implementation through a case description. Conclusions and knowledge to be gained
from the case are discussed.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.2018.82.4.266 
PMID: 30589579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Comprehensive behavioral treatment for an adult with sensory-based
trichotillomania: An illustrative case study.

Trichotillomania (TTM) is a poorly understood condition that causes significant
impairment, but effective behavioral management strategies exist. The
phenomenology of TTM is complex and requires an individualized treatment
approach, and there are some important facets of TTM that have only recently been
recognized. Specifically, contemporary research indicates that hair pulling is
often performed to regulate aversive sensations and provide somatosensory reward.
In this article, we describe the complex phenomenology of TTM, evidence-based
treatment options, and illustrate a case of sensory-based TTM treated effectively
with a comprehensive behavioral intervention.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.2018.82.4.288 
PMID: 30589578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Treatment of OCD in a young person: Using the C in CBT.

Evidence for using cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for the treatment of
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in young people emphasizes the use of
exposure with response prevention (ERP) as the key ingredient. CBT with a
cognitive focus is used more often in adults, and comparatively there is less
evidence for its use with young people. Although a significant proportion of
young people with OCD respond well to CBT using ERP, a subset does not.
Therefore, there is a need to consider alternative approaches. This case study
describes the treatment of a 15-year-old girl with severe OCD using a cognitive
approach. This case identifies the criteria used to make the decision to use a
cognitive over an ERP approach and highlights the differences between the
treatments. This case study demonstrates the merit of considering the cognitive
approach to treatment of OCD for some young people.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.2018.82.4.326 
PMID: 30589577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Integrating family therapy into exposure-based CBT for a Spanish patient with
obsessive scrupulosity.

Obsessive-compulsive symptom profiles vary widely among individuals and may be
affected by cultural backgrounds. In the case of scrupulosity, moral and
religious principles are the target of obsessive-compulsive symptoms. Cognitive
biases and beliefs have special relevance in the origin and maintenance of
obsessive scrupulosity. In addition, rigid and exaggerated beliefs about morality
are held by these patients. Moral and religious principles are mainly transmitted
by family. These influences may be more prominent in cultures, such as the
Spanish culture, where family and religion are important values for individuals. 
The authors describe the treatment of a Spanish patient with obsessive
scrupulosity. Family therapy strategies were integrated into exposure-based CBT
in order to facilitate the modification of beliefs, behaviors, and pathological
family relationships. The patient exhibited clinically significant improvements
in OCD symptoms. Findings from this case show the need for individualized
interventions that take into consideration cultural, social, and family factors.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.2018.82.4.308 
PMID: 30589575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Acceptance and commitment therapy for a case of scrupulosity-related
obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) is a modern form of cognitive behavior
therapy (CBT) with growing support for treating obsessive-compulsive disorder
(OCD). We present a case wherein a client presented with scrupulosity-related
OCD. We briefly review scrupulosity, explain the theory behind ACT, and present a
case, the treatment process, and desired outcomes. Exposure and response
prevention (ERP) is described from an ACT perspective and discussed as an option 
for people with OCD who may be reluctant to engage in more traditional forms of
ERP.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.2018.82.4.407 
PMID: 30589574  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Assisting relapse prevention in OCD using a novel mobile app-based intervention: 
A case report.

Mobile health apps increase the accessibility of cognitive-behavioral-based
interventions before, during, or following treatment. GGOC is a mobile app
designed to challenge maladaptive beliefs in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
This single-case study assesses the usefulness of GGOC as a relapse prevention
tool for OCD. The patient was a 26-year-old woman with severe contamination and
washing/cleaning OCD symptoms (Y-BOCS = 33). GGOC was used for relapse prevention
following CBT treatment. The patient completed 47 levels dedicated to
OCD-relevant maladaptive beliefs. Before and after GGOC, the Y-BOCS,
Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory (OCI-R), Obsessive Beliefs Questionnaire (OBQ-20),
and Depression subscale of the Depression, Anxiety, Stress Scale were completed. 
The OBQ-20 and OCI-R scores decreased from pre- to post-GGOC. The Y-BOCS
decreased from 7 pre-GGOC to 2 post-GGOC. Findings support the efficacy of GGOC
as a relapse prevention tool for individuals with OCD, and its contribution to
maintaining gains after CBT.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.2018.82.4.390 
PMID: 30589573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462.Smoking moderates association of 5-HTTLPR and in vivo availability of serotonin
transporters.

Although preclinical studies clearly indicate an effect of 5-HTTLPR genotype on
5-HT transporter (5-HTT) expression, studies in humans provided inconclusive
results, hypothetically due to environmental factors and differences in
individual behavior. For example, nicotine and other constituents of tobacco
smoke elevate serotonin (5-HT) levels in the brain and may thereby cause
homeostatic adaptations in 5-HTT availability that moderate effects of 5-HTTLPR
genotype. To test whether 5-HTT availability in the midbrain is affected by
smoking status and 5-HTTLPR genotype, we pooled data from prior studies on in
vivo 5-HTT availability (BPND) measured with positron emission tomography (PET)
and [11C]DASB. In total, we reanalyzed 5-HTT availability in 116 subjects using
ANCOVA statistics. ROI analysis revealed that current smokers and non-smokers do 
not differ in midbrain BPND. Interestingly, smoking status significantly
interacted with 5-HTTLPR genotype: active smoking was associated with reduced
5-HTT availability only in LL subjects but not in carriers of the S-allele. From 
the perspective of genotype effects, non-smokers showed the expected association 
with 5-HTTLPR, i.e. higher 5-HTT availability in LL subjects compared to carriers
of the S-allele, whereas this pattern was actually reversed for active smokers.
Our study indicates that smoking status moderates the association of 5-HTTLPR
genotype and 5-HTT expression, which may help to explain inconsistent findings in
previous studies. Regarding the mechanism, we suggest that smoking may induce
epigenetic processes such as methylation of SLC6A4, which can differ depending on
its genetic constitution.



DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2018.08.509 
PMID: 30587400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Perceptions of free will in obsessive-compulsive disorder: a quantitative
analysis.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to explore perceptions of free will in the 
repetitive behaviors of patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and to 
explore their relation with core clinical characteristics.
METHODS: Experiences of free will were assessed with the Symptomatology And
Perceived Free will rating scale (SAPF) in 295 subjects with a lifetime diagnosis
of OCD. Patients' scores on the SAPF were subjected to an explorative principal
axis factor analysis (PAF). Factor scores were regressed on five OCD symptom
dimensions and on seven clinical variables: illness duration, severity of OCD,
insight, anxiety and depression, suicidal ideation and quality of life.
RESULTS: The PAF revealed three factors: the perceived ability to control and
change one's course of action when faced with an obsession or compulsion (the
"alternative possibilities" factor); the experience of obsessions or compulsions 
as intentional (the "intentionality" factor); and the experience of being the
source or owner of the obsessions or compulsions (the "ownership" factor). Lower 
scores on the "alternative possibilities" factor were associated with lower
scores on the washing dimension (β = 0.237, p = 0.004) and higher scores on the
precision dimension (β = - 0.190, p = 0.025) and independently associated with
longer illness duration (β = - 0.134, p = 0.039), higher illness severity
(β = - 0.298, p < 0.001) and lower quality of life (β = 0.172, p = 0.046). Lower 
scores on the "intentionality" factor were independently associated with lower
quality of life (β = 0.233, p = 0.027). Higher scores on the "ownership" factor
were associated with higher scores on the precision dimension (β = 0.207,
p = 0.023) and independently associated with poorer insight (β = 0.170,
p = 0.045).
CONCLUSIONS: The most notable finding of this study is that a diminished
experience of free will in OCD is associated with core clinical characteristics: 
illness duration and severity, insight and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-018-1985-3 
PMCID: PMC6307295
PMID: 30587170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Screening for depressive and anxiety disorders among adolescents in Indonesia:
Formal validation of the centre for epidemiologic studies depression scale -
revised and the Kessler psychological distress scale.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to culturally verify and examine the empirical
psychometric properties of the Indonesian versions of the Centre for
Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale - Revised (CESD-R), the Kessler
Psychological Distress Scale - 10 items (K10) and a subset of 6 items of the K10,
the K6 to detect depressive and anxiety disorders among older adolescents in
Indonesia.
METHODS: The empirical psychometric properties were examined formally among
students aged 16-18 years attending high schools in Jakarta. The scales were
validated against the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview for Children 
and Adolescents (MINI-Kid) modules for major depressive episode, dysthymia, panic
disorder, separation anxiety disorder, and generalized anxiety disorder.
RESULTS: In total, 196 students contributed complete data. All of the scales had 
Cronbach's alpha >0.8. The areas under the ROC Curve of CESD-R against MINI
depressive disorders and K10/K6 against MINI depressive and anxiety disorders
were at moderate to high accuracy levels (0.78 to 0.86). The optimal cut-off
value of CESD-R (scores ranging: 0-60) to screen for any depressive disorder is
≥20 (sensitivity 75.0%; specificity 79.9%). The optimal cut-off value of K10 to
detect any depressive/anxiety disorders is ≥18 (sensitivity 85.7%; specificity
74.7%); and K6 is ≥12 (sensitivity 81.0%; specificity 76.6%); LIMITATIONS: The
school-based sample limits the generalisability of the findings to this group.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that the CESD-R I is a useful tool for screening
for depressive disorders and both the K10 I and K6 I are useful for screening for
any depressive or anxiety disorders among Indonesian adolescents.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.042 
PMID: 30583144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Heart rate variability for treatment response between patients with major
depressive disorder versus panic disorder: A 12-week follow-up study.

BACKGROUND: Heart Rate Variability (HRV) parameters have been used to evaluate
the autonomic nervous system. We hypothesized that patients with major depressive
disorder (MDD) and panic disorder (PD) showed different HRV profiles compared to 
healthy controls. We also hypothesized that we could predict the responder groups
in the MDD and PD patients, using differences in HRV indices between the stress
and rest phases.
METHODS: 28 MDD patients and 29 PD patients were followed for 12 weeks, and we
also followed 39 healthy control subjects. We measured HRV parameters at the
rest, stress, and recovery phases.
RESULTS: Patients with MDD and PD demonstrated lower pNN50 than controls during
the stress (F = 7.49, p = 0.001), and recovery phases (F = 9.43, p = 0.0001).
Patients with MDD and PD also showed higher LF/HF ratio than controls during the 
stress phase (F = 6.15, p = 0.002). Responders in the PD group presented a lower 
level of LF/HF ratio during the stress phase compared to non-responders
(F = 10.14, p = 0.002), while responders in the MDD group showed a lower level of
heart rate during all three phases, compared to non-responders. Additionally, we 
could predict treatment response in patients with MDD using ΔLF/HF ratio (OR:
1.33, 95% CI = 1.07-1.65, p = 0.011) and ΔpNN50 (OR: 1.49, 95% CI 1.09-1.77,
p = 0.014).
CONCLUSION: The changes of HRV parameters of pNN50 and LF/HF ratio between the
stress and recovery phase may be clinical markers of predictors of treatment
responsiveness in MDD and PD patients.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.048 
PMID: 30583140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. COMPARATIVE CHARACTERISTIC OF «ALCOHOL DEPRESSION» IN PERSONS WHO PARTICIPATED IN
COMBAT OPERATIONS (COMBATANS) AND AFFECTED BY RADIATION CATASTROP.

The relevance of work is conditioned by the considerable prevalence of depressive
disorders and alcohol abuseamong people who participated in combat operations
(combatants) and affected by a radiation emergency, whichneeds to be optimized
for providing them with a comprehensive social, psychological-psychiatric,
medication andsomato-neurological help on the basis of a biopsychosocial
paradigm.The objective of the study was to increase the level of medical care to 
combatants of the Antiterrorist Operation /Joint Forces Operation (ATO/JFO) and
person affected by the catastrophe at the Chornobyl NPP (ChNPP) with depres-sion 
associated with alcohol abuse through theoretical substantiation, development and
implementation in theinstitutions of public health and other agencies involved of
new principles and algorithms for diagnosis, treatmentand prevention.The object
and methods of the study were 160 ATO/JFO combatants from the age of 22 to 56
years old (M ± SD:(41.5 ± 16.5) years) with alcohol and depressive disorders the 
main group. The comparison groups included 81Chornobyl catastrophe clean-up
workers (liquidators) with post-traumatic stress disorder and comorbid
chroniccerebrovascular pathology, as well as other contingents affected by the
Chornobyl catastrophe. Clinical-anamnestic,socio-demographic, clinical
psychopathological, psychodiagnostic, neurophysiological and neuroimaging
methodswere used. Somato-neurological clinical examinations and laboratory tests 
have been applied. The analysis of thedata was performed using MS Excel
spreadsheets and statistical package Statistica 10.0 (StatSoft) with the
Studentt-criterion, paired t-test, criterion χ2, and Fisher exact test.The study 
design of the main group consisted of 5 stages: 1) screening; 2) inclusion; 3)
randomization; 4) treat-ment and 5) catamnestic (follow-up) observation.Results. 
In the main group the distribution of depressive syndromes was revealed as
follows: depressive-hypochon-dric - in 68 (42.5 %) patients; 2)
asthenic-depressive - in 33 (20,6 %); 3) anxiety-depressive - in 31 (19.4 %);
4)depressive-dysphoric - in 14 (8.8 %); 5) apathetic-depressive - in 7 (4,35 %); 
and 6) simple depressive - in7 (4,35%). The combatants after participation in the
ATO/JFO had personality deformation and irritative changes of thebrain
bioelectric activity, thickening of the intima-media complex and venous dyshaemia
in the basal veins ofRosenthal. In liquidators there is an excess of depressive
disorders, the frequency and severity of which increase inproportion to the
radiation dose. These disorders are characterized by progressive course,
personality changes withpsychosomatic pre-disposition, comorbidity with
cerebrovascular pathology, neurocognitive deficits and high fre-quency (24 %) of 
secondary alcohol abuse. The relationship between depressive disorders and
alcohol dependencein the examined patients is diverse. Their variants differ in
certain clinical manifestations and to a large extentdetermine the differential
diagnosis and differentiated approaches to treatment, prevention and medical and 
socialrehabilitationConclusions. The comorbidity of depressive disorders with the
abuse of alcohol by combatants and person affectedby the catastrophe at the ChNPP
is gaining an increasing significance first of all because of the increased risk 
of suicidal behavior. The proposed diagnostic complex and differentiated
approaches to treatment, prevention and med-ical and social rehabilitation may
increase the level of medical care for the ATO /JFO combatants and the
Chernobylcatastrophe survivors with depression associated with alcohol abuse.



DOI: 10.33145/2304-8336-2018-23-423-441 
PMID: 30582860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Comorbid anxiety in bipolar CHOICE: Insights from the bipolar inventory of
symptoms scale.

BACKGROUND: Approximately 86-89% of patients with BD have a comorbid anxiety
disorder associated with poor quality of life and reduced likelihood of recovery 
from an acute mood episode. The purpose of this study is to assess the prevalence
and impact of comorbid anxiety using the Bipolar Inventory of Symptoms Scale
(BISS) in patients with BD who participated in a 6-month pragmatic trial.
METHODS: Participants (N = 482) in the Bipolar Clinical Health Outcomes
Initiative in Comparative Effectiveness (CHOICE) study were adults with BD I or
II. Anxiety diagnoses were assessed with the MINI. Global illness severity was
assessed using the Clinical Global Impression-Bipolar Version. Mood symptoms and 
anxiety severity were assessed using the BISS.
RESULTS: 61% of the study sample met criteria for a current anxiety disorder.
Patients with a higher BISS anxiety score at baseline had a higher overall BD
illness severity, depressive severity, and manic episode severity (p < 0.001). A 
single cutoff value of BISS anxiety had great sensitivity, yet poor specificity
for determining a comorbid anxiety diagnosis. There were no significant
differences in outcomes for individuals treated for anxiety disorders with
anxiolytics compared with those who were not treated with anxiolytics.
LIMITATIONS: Sample size limitations prevented an analysis of whether the BISS
cutoff score of 10 performed differently across varied anxiety disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: Given its ability to identify patients with co-occurring anxiety,
the BISS anxiety subscale shows clinical utility as a screening measure though
its application as a clinical assessment measure may not be advisable.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.039 
PMID: 30580198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468.Neurodevelopmental correlates of behavioural and emotional problems in a
neuropaediatric sample.

Most research does not address the overlap between neurodevelopmental disorders
when investigating concomitant mental health problems. The purpose of the present
study was to examine the association of intellectual disability (ID), autism
spectrum disorder (ASD), and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) with
the presence of behavioural and emotional problems after controlling for other
well-known correlates and risk factors. The sample included 4- to 18-year-old
children who attended neuropaediatric clinics (N = 331). After controlling for
adversity, age, gender, other developmental/neurological disorders, parental
emotional problems, and parenting strategies, the presence of ADHD but not ASD or
ID was uniquely associated with behaviour problems. Neither ADHD nor ASD nor ID
was significantly associated with emotional problems after controlling for other 
risk factors. However, ADHD, ASD and behavioural/emotional disorders but not ID
were significantly associated with functional impairment in everyday activities
after controlling for other risk factors. Because children with
neurodevelopmental disorders have complex needs, a holistic approach to diagnosis
and interventions is highly warranted, including the assessment and treatment of 
behavioural and emotional disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2018.11.005 
PMID: 30580152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Comment on 'Prenatal maternal anxiety and children's brain structure and
function: A systematic review of neuroimaging studies' (Adamson et al., J Affect 
Disord 2018, 241, 117-126).

In the review article by Adamson, Letourneau and Lebel (J Affect Disord 2018,
241, 117-126) the article of Mennes, Van den Bergh, Lagae & Stiers (Clin
Neurophysiolol 2009, 120, 116-1122) was rated as "weak, due to lack of
information provided regarding the sample population of mothers". However, Mennes
et al. (2009) had referred to previous articles describing data and results of
earlier waves. Unfortunately, this went unnoticed, most probably because of the
use of an automatic extraction method and/or inaccurate verification of the data 
extraction tool. Moreover, Adamson et al. (2018) omit in Table 1 and in several
sections of the text, crucial information that was provided in Mennes et al.
(2009), pertaining to measurement of maternal state and trait anxiety,
measurement of maternal anxiety at three times during pregnancy and the use of
postnatal maternal trait anxiety as a control variable. In this letter we have
clarified why the manuscript of Mennes et al. (2009) was not fully appreciated
and kindly ask the authors of the review paper to add a corrigendum in which the 
remarks are considered.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.099 
PMID: 30579581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Correlation between premature ejaculation and psychological disorders in 270
Chinese outpatients.

Clinical patients with premature ejaculation(PE) often present with poor
psychological state. This study investigated whether there is a difference in the
psychological state of PE and non-PE in outpatients, and whether there is a
correlation between ejaculatory latency and psychological disorders. We studied
demographics informations and psychological indicators for PE patients and
control group, including the Self-Rating Anxiety Scale(SAS) and Self-Rating
Depression Scale(SDS), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and recorded the
ejaculatory latency. We analyzed the relationship between PE and psychological
disorders by the Pearson correlation and multifactorial logistic regression.
There were significant differences in SAS(p < 0.01) and SDS(p < 0.05) scores
between the PE and non-PE groups. However, Pearson correlation analysis showed
that there was no correlation between ejaculatory latency and SDS. Multifactorial
logistic regression analysis showed that anxiety(p < 0.05) and sleep
quality(p < 0.05) were closely related to the attack of PE. The incidence of
anxiety and depression in PE patients is high, anxiety is a risk factor of PE.
Clinicians should pay close attention to the psychological state and sleep
quality of patients with PE.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.038 
PMID: 30579184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471.Temporal trends of co-diagnosis of depression and/or anxiety among female
maternal and non-maternal hospitalizations: Results from Nationwide Inpatient
Sample 2004-2013.

Perinatal depression/anxiety is considered the most underdiagnosed pregnancy
complication in the US and is associated with poor maternal and fetal outcomes.
However, despite its prevalence, most women who present with depressive symptoms 
are not screened and do not receive adequate treatment. We examined the clinical 
co-diagnosis of depression and/or anxiety among maternal and non-maternal
hospitalizations among females aged 14-49 from the Nationwide Inpatient Sample
(NIS) between 2004 and 2013 (n = 83,472,775). Meta-regression was used to
determine annual change and presence of temporal trends. Survey logistic
regression was used to examine the association with sociodemographic factors.
Rates of diagnosis of depression and/or anxiety disorders demonstrated a temporal
increase from 2004-2013, and this increase was mainly driven by non-maternal
hospitalizations compared to maternal. Furthermore, non-maternal hospitalizations
demonstrated a greater prevalence of depression and/or anxiety diagnoses compared
to maternal hospitalizations over the same time period (21•7% versus 2•8%). Among
all female hospitalizations, whites were roughly twice as likely as minorities to
have a diagnosis of depression and/or anxiety. These results add to the evidence 
suggestive of the underdiagnosed depression/anxiety present among women of
reproductive age, particularly pregnant women and minorities, and underscore the 
critical role of obstetricians in treating both physical and mental health.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.077 
PMID: 30579180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Psychometric properties of the 7-item Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD-7) 
in a large representative sample of Finnish adolescents.

Symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) are common among adolescents and
can lead to severe psychosocial impairment, yet there is a lack of a good quality
scale to measure symptoms of generalized anxiety in young people. The 7-item
Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD-7) is a self-report scale used to measure
GAD symptoms and has been validated in adult populations, but the measure's
psychometric properties regarding adolescents are unknown. The aim of this study 
was to investigate the reliability, factorial validity, and construct validity of
the GAD-7 in adolescents in a nationally representative sample from a general
population. Our study was based on Finnish survey data on 111,171 adolescents
aged 14-18 years. Our results show that the GAD-7 demonstrates good psychometric 
properties in adolescents. The internal consistency of the GAD-7 was good
(Cronbach's α = 0.91) and the instrument's unidimensional factor structure was
supported. The associations of GAD-7 sum scores with self-report measures of
depression and social anxiety supported construct validity. The psychometric
properties of the GAD-7 in this sample of adolescents were similar to those
reported among adults. However, studies in which diagnostic interviews are
performed are needed to demonstrate the diagnostic efficacy of the measure in
this age group.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.004 
PMID: 30579178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Exposure therapy for social anxiety disorder in people who stutter: An
exploratory multiple baseline design.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Social anxiety disorder (SAD) is a debilitating
condition, and approximately half of adults who stutter have SAD.
Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) has shown promise in decreasing social anxiety
symptoms among adults who stutter, but exposure, arguably the essential component
for successful CBT for SAD, has been understudied and underemphasized. Aims of
this study were to develop an exposure therapy protocol designed specifically for
people who stutter and have SAD and evaluate its potential efficacy in reducing
social anxiety and stuttering severity using a multiple baseline design.
METHODS: Six participants received ten sessions of exposure therapy. Participants
reported daily social anxiety, and social distress and stuttering severity were
evaluated at major assessment points.
RESULTS: There were substantial reductions in social anxiety and considerable
improvements in affective, behavioral, and cognitive experiences of stuttering.
No consistent change was observed for stuttering frequency. Gains were mostly
maintained after six-months.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that the novel exposure approach may decrease social
distress, but not necessarily influence speech fluency. These findings underscore
the importance of the assessment and treatment of SAD among adults who stutter
and suggest that the integration of care between clinical psychologists and
speech-language pathologists may prove beneficial for this population.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jfludis.2018.12.001 
PMID: 30578977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Response inhibition and anxiety in adolescents: Results from a population-based
community sample.

BACKGROUND: Anxiety disorders are prevalent among adolescents; however, without
objective behavioral markers, anxiety disorders in adolescent populations may
often go undiagnosed. Response inhibition is considered as a possible behavioral 
marker, based on the results with two-gate design, which can aid in early
detection of anxiety disorders. The aim of this study was to investigate the
relationship between response inhibition and anxiety using a large-scale
population-based adolescent sample with single-gate design.
METHODS: We used data from the Tokyo Teen Cohort study which was a
population-based survey in adolescence. Anxiety was assessed by the Child
Behavior Checklist answered by primary caregivers. Response inhibition was
measured using the Go/No-Go task. We estimated Pearson's correlation coefficient 
to test the relationship between response inhibition and anxiety.
RESULTS: A total of 2,434 adolescents aged 11-13 years were included in our
analyses. We found a significant but weak correlation between response inhibition
and adolescent anxiety (r = 0.07, confidence interval 0.03-0.11, p < 0.001).
Similar results were shown in most of subgroups according to gender, age, and
intelligence.
LIMITATIONS: The primary outcome was assessed only via parent-reported
questionnaire, leading to potential informant bias.
CONCLUSIONS: Response inhibition may not be considered as a suitable behavioral
marker of adolescent anxiety.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.010 
PMID: 30578951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Anxiety, depression, loneliness and social network in the elderly: Longitudinal
associations from The Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing (TILDA).

BACKGROUND: Social network, loneliness, generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) and
major depression disorder (MDD) are interrelated. However, as the directions of
these associations are still unclear, we examined them prospectively using
community-based data.
METHODS: Data on 5066 adults aged ≥50 years from The Irish Longitudinal Study on 
Ageing (TILDA) were analyzed. Loneliness was assessed through the UCLA loneliness
scale. Social integration was measured using the Berkman-Syme Social Network
Index. MDD and GAD were assessed with the Composite International Diagnostic
Interview (CIDI). Logistic regression models were conducted.
RESULTS: The longitudinal association between experiencing loneliness and higher 
likelihood of suffering from MDD or GAD two years later is bidirectional but
stronger with loneliness as origin, whereas the association between social
isolation and higher likelihood of subsequent MDD or GAD as well as those between
loneliness and subsequent deterioration of social integration are unidirectional.
CONCLUSION: Objective and perceived social isolation independently affect the
probability of suffering from MDD or GAD whereas loneliness is a risk factor for 
the deterioration of social life, which highlights the need to address the
subjective factors (such as loneliness) and objective factors (such as social
network size) of social isolation in a complementary way in order to improve the 
mental health of the older adult population.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.043 
PMID: 30578950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476.Does social and professional establishment at age 30 mediate the association
between school connectedness and family climate at age 16 and mental health
symptoms at age 43?

BACKGROUND: The aim was to use a theoretical framework developed by
Bronfenbrenner in order to investigate if the association between school
connectedness and family climate at age 16 and mental health symptoms at age 43
is mediated by social and professional establishment at age 30.
METHODS: Data were drawn from The Northern Swedish Cohort, a prospective
population-based cohort. The present study included 506 women and 577 men who
responded to questionnaires at age 16 (in year 1981), age 30 (in 1995) and age 43
(in 2008). Mediation was tested by fitting structural equation models (SEM) and
estimating direct effects between proximal processes (school connectedness and
family climate) and symptoms of depression and anxiety respectively, and indirect
effects via social and professional establishment (professional activity,
educational level, and civil status).
RESULTS: The standardised estimate for the direct path from school connectedness 
to depression was -0.147 (p = .000) and the indirect effect mediated by
professional activity -0.017 (p = .011) and by civil status -0.020 (p = .002).
The standardised direct effect between school connectedness and anxiety was
-0.147 (p = .000) and the indirect effect mediated by civil status -0.018
(p = .005). Family climate was not significantly associated with the outcomes or 
mediators.
LIMITATIONS: Self-reported data; mental health measures not diagnostic; closed
cohort; intelligence, personality and home situation before age 16 not accounted 
for.
CONCLUSIONS: Professional and social establishment in early adulthood appear to
partially mediate the association between adolescent school connectedness and
mental health symptoms in middle-age.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.12.027 
PMID: 30578946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Augmentation agents to serotonin reuptake inhibitors for treatment-resistant
obsessive-compulsive disorder: A network meta-analysis.

BACKGROUND: Various agents for augmentation of serotonin reuptake inhibitors have
been investigated for treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). We
aimed to comprehensively compare different augmentation agents for
treatment-resistant OCD in adults.
METHODS: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, CENTRAL, the WHO's ICTRP, and
ClinicalTrials.gov were searched on February 20, 2018. Pairwise meta-analysis and
Bayesian network meta-analysis were performed. The primary outcome was efficacy
measured by the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale. The secondary outcomes
were tolerability (side-effect discontinuation) and acceptability (all cause
discontinuation). Mean differences (MDs) and odds ratios (ORs) were reported with
95% confidence intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: Thirty-three articles with 34 trials (1216 patients) were included.
Memantine (MD, -8.94; 95% CI, -14.42 to -3.42), risperidone (-4.47, -8.75 to
-0.17), topiramate (-6.05, -10.89 to -1.20), lamotrigine (-6.07, -11.61 to
-0.50), and aripiprazole (-5.14, -9.95 to -0.28) were significantly superior to
placebo. Antipsychotic (-4.09, -6.22 to -1.93) and glutamatergic (-5.22, -7.53 to
-2.84) agents were significantly superior to placebo. Considerable heterogeneity 
was found across studies, and baseline symptom severity was identified as a
significant moderator. After baseline severity adjustment, quetiapine (-5.00,
-8.59 to -1.29) and olanzapine (-8.28, -15.34 to -1.13) became significantly
superior to placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study supports the use of antipsychotic or glutamatergic agents 
as augmentation agents for treatment-resistant OCD. Topiramate, lamotrigine,
aripiprazole, olanzapine, risperidone, memantine, and quetiapine are alternative 
augmentation drugs; however, a definitive conclusion of the best drug remains
undetermined because of the considerable heterogeneity and limited numbers of
studies and patients for each agent.



DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2018.12.009 
PMID: 30576763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Lifestyle factors, self-reported health and sense of coherence among
fathers/partners in relation to risk for depression and anxiety in early
pregnancy.

BACKGROUND: Father's health is important for mothers and unborn/newborn children 
and knowledge about expectant fathers' health in relation to lifestyle and
psychosocial aspects is essential.
AIMS: To determine sociodemographic and lifestyle factors, self-reported health
and sense of coherence among fathers and partners in relation to their risk for
depression and anxiety in early pregnancy.
METHODS: A cross-sectional design, descriptive statistics, chi-squared analysis, 
T-test, binary logistic regression, multiple logistic regression with OR and 95% 
CI were used.
RESULTS: A total of 532 prospective fathers/partners constituted the cohort (mean
age 31.55, SD 5.47 years). Nearly, one in ten (9.8%) had a statistically high
risk for depression; mainly those who were unemployed (p = 0.043), had financial 
distress (0.001), reported 'very or fairly bad' health (p = 0.002), had a 'very
or fairly bad' sexual satisfaction (p = 0.006) and scored low on the SOC scale
(p < 0.001). They smoked more often (p = 0.003) were hazardous users of alcohol
(p = 0.001) and slept with difficulties (p = 0.001). Those with sleeping
difficulties were 5.7 times more likely to have several symptoms of depression
(p = 0.001). Hazardous users of alcohol and smokers had 3.1 respectively 3.0
times higher risk for depression (p = 0.001 respectively 0.003). The single
strongest risk factor was a low score on the SOC-scale which gave 10.6 (AOR 10.6;
95% CI 5.4-20.6) higher risk for depression. High-anxiety 'just now' was reported
by 8.9% and 'in general' by 7.9%, and those who had sleeping difficulties
reported 'very or fairly bad' health (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Allocating more resources and introducing more family-focused care
with depression and anxiety screening in early pregnancy for both expecting
parents at antenatal care should be strongly considered by actors and
policymakers, as this is a step in maintaining a family's well-being.



DOI: 10.1111/scs.12641 
PMID: 30575068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Trajectories and predictors of response in youth anxiety CBT: Integrative data
analysis.

OBJECTIVE: Integrative data analysis was used to combine existing data from nine 
trials of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for anxious youth (N = 832) and
identify trajectories of symptom change and predictors of trajectories.
METHOD: Youth- and parent-reported anxiety symptoms were combined using
item-response theory models. Growth mixture modeling assessed for trajectories of
treatment response across pre-, mid-, and posttreatment and 1-year follow-up.
Pretreatment client demographic and clinical traits and treatment modality
(individual- and family-based CBT) were examined as predictors of trajectory
classes.
RESULTS: Growth mixture modeling supported three trajectory classes based on
parent-reported symptoms: steady responders, rapid responders, and delayed
improvement. A 4-class model was supported for youth-reported symptoms: steady
responders, rapid responders, delayed improvement, and low-symptom responders.
Delayed improvement classes were predicted by higher number of diagnoses (parent 
and youth report). Receiving family CBT predicted membership in the delayed
improvement class compared to all other classes and membership in the steady
responder class compared with rapid responders (youth report). Rapid responders
were predicted by older age (parent report) and higher number of diagnoses
(parent report). Low-symptom responders were more likely to be male (youth
report).
CONCLUSIONS: Integrative data analysis identified distinct patterns of symptom
change. Diagnostic complexity, age, gender, and treatment modality differentiated
response classes. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/ccp0000367 
PMID: 30570308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480.Getting better my way: Feasibility study of a self-management support tool for
people with mood and anxiety disorders.

OBJECTIVE: Self-management support is recognized as an important component of the
management of mood and anxiety disorders. The goal of this feasibility study was 
to evaluate the acceptability, implementation and perceived usefulness of a new
comprehensive self-management tool (Getting better my way) in four care settings 
in Quebec, Canada.
METHOD: Care providers offered the tool to people with difficulties related to
mood or anxiety disorders during a 7-month period. A sample of 71 participants
filled out an online survey and 27 accepted to participate in a follow-up
interview. Focus groups were conducted with 82 care providers.
RESULTS: Satisfaction ratings were high for the tool overall, the likelihood of
recommending it to friends, its attractiveness and interest, and its completion
time. Perceived usefulness was high overall and was not related to most
demographic and clinical variables. No adverse effects were reported.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The study highlights that Getting
better my way is a comprehensive recovery-oriented tool, considered useful,
acceptable and feasible to use in a variety of settings offering services for
mood and anxiety disorders. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights
reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/prj0000331 
PMID: 30570271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Deep brain stimulation - depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder.

OBJECTIVE: The Guidelines Project, an initiative of the Brazilian Medical
Association, aims to combine information from the medical field in order to
standardize producers to assist the reasoning and decision-making of doctors.
CONCLUSIONS: The information provided through this project must be assessed and
criticized by the physician responsible for the conduct that will be adopted,
depending on the conditions and the clinical status of each patient.

DOI: 10.1590/1806-9282.64.11.963 
PMID: 30570046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Integrative analysis of shared genetic pathogenesis by obsessive‑compulsive and
eating disorders.

A number of common pathological features have been observed in
obsessive‑compulsive disorder (OCD) and eating disorders (EDs). The present study
examined the association between OCD and EDs at the genetic level in order to
gain an improved understanding of the shared genetic basis of the diseases and
identify novel potential risk genes for the two diseases. An integrated analysis 
using large‑scale disease‑gene association data and gene expression data was
conducted. Disease‑gene association data were acquired from the Pathway Studio
Mammalian database. Gene expression data were acquired from samples of 133
subjects, including 15 ED cases, 16 OCD cases and 102 normal controls. Genes
associated with OCD and ED presented significant overlap (21 genes,
P=6.70x10‑34), serving roles within multiple common genetic pathways (top 10
pathway enrichment P<4.30x10‑7) that were implicated in the two diseases. A
genetic network of 17 genes was constructed, through which OCD and ED were
observed to influence each other. Expression analysis revealed four novel common 
significant genes for OCD and ED (oxytocin receptor, glutamate decarboxylase 2,
neuropeptide Y and glutamate ionotropic receptor kainate type subunit 3). These
genes demonstrated a strong functional association with the two diseases. The
results of the present study supported the presence of complex genetic
associations between OCD and ED. Genes associated with one disease are worthy of 
further investigation as potential risk factors for the other. The findings of
the present study may provide novel insights into the understanding of the
pathogenesis of OCD and ED.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9772 
PMID: 30569105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Neurologic and neuroscience education: Mitigating neurophobia to mentor health
care providers.

Neurologic disorders are among the most frequent causes of morbidity and
mortality in the United States. Moreover, the current shortfall of neurologists
is expected to worsen over the coming decade. As a consequence, many patients
with neurologic disorders will be treated by physicians and primary care
providers without formal neurologic training. Furthermore, a pervasive and
well-described fear of neurology, termed neurophobia, has been identified in
medical student cohorts, residents, and among general practitioners. In this
article, members of the American Academy of Neurology A.B. Baker Section on
Neurological Education review current guidelines regarding neurologic and
neuroscience education, contextualize the genesis and the negative consequences
of neurophobia, and provide strategies to mitigate it for purposes of mentoring
future generations of health care providers.



DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000006716 
PMID: 30568010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Thalamic shape and volume abnormalities in female patients with panic disorder.

The thalamus is believed to play crucial role in processing viscero-sensory
information, and regulating the activity of amygdala in patients with panic
disorder (PD). Previous functional neuroimaging studies have detected abnormal
activation in the thalamus in patients with PD compared with healthy control
subjects (HC). Very few studies, however, have investigated for volumetric
abnormalities in the thalamus in patients with PD. Furthermore, to the best of
our knowledge, no previous study has investigated for shape abnormalities in the 
thalamus in patients with PD. Twenty-five patients with PD and 25 HC participants
(all female) were recruited for the study. A voxel-wise volume comparison
analysis and a vertex-wise shape analysis were conducted to evaluate structural
abnormalities in the PD patients compared to HC. The patients with PD
demonstrated significant gray matter volume reductions in the thalamus
bilaterally, relative to the HC. The shape analysis detected significant inward
deformation in some thalamic regions in the PD patients, including the anterior
nucleus, mediodorsal nucleus, and pulvinar nucleus. PD patients showed shape
deformations in key thalamic regions that are believed to play a role in
regulating emotional and cognitive functions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0208152 
PMCID: PMC6300210
PMID: 30566534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Cognitive-behavioural outreach for an adolescent experiencing social anxiety,
panic and agoraphobia: A single-case experimental design.

PROBLEM: Previous research suggests that the adult-focussed Clark and Wells
(1995) model of social anxiety disorder (SAD) can be used to guide clinic-based
treatment for adolescents. This single-case study (N = 1) investigated whether
this model could also guide community-based outreach work for a 16-year-old
female who was unable to attend clinic-based appointments due to social anxiety
comorbid with panic and agoraphobia.
METHODS: An experimental A-B-A design was used with three assessment-formulation 
sessions and 12 intervention sessions, focussing on exposure, cognitive
restructuring, attention training, behavioural experiments and imagery
rescripting. The Revised Child Anxiety and Depression Scale (RCADS), the Session 
Rating Scale (SRS) and the Goal Based Outcome form were administered at regular
intervals.
FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS: Social anxiety and panic scores reduced below the
clinical threshold and the young person was able to leave home, travel
independently (short-term goal) and re-engage with her social-family life
(medium-term goal). SRS scores suggest that the intervention was acceptable and
the therapeutic alliance was maintained throughout. In summary, this case study
suggests that the Clark and Wells (1995) model of SAD can be used to guide
community-based outreach work with adolescents unable to leave their home.
Limitations and ideas for future research are discussed.



DOI: 10.1111/jcap.12216 
PMID: 30565788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Cannabis and mental illness: a review.

With the increasing push to legalize cannabis in Western nations, there is a need
to gage the potential impact of this policy change on vulnerable populations,
such as those with mental illness, including schizophrenia, mood, and anxiety
disorders. This is particularly important as there are strong motives in these
individuals to seek short-term reward (e.g., "getting high"). Nonetheless, data
to support the beneficial effects of cannabis use in psychiatric populations are 
limited, and potential harms in patients with psychotic and mood disorders have
been increasingly documented. This article reviews the effects of cannabis in
people with mental illness. Then, we provide a reconciliation of the addiction
vulnerability and allostatic hypotheses to explain co-morbidity addiction in
mentally ill cannabis users, as well as to further aid in developing a rational
framework for the assessment and treatment of problematic cannabis use in these
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-018-0970-7 
PMCID: PMC6397076 [Available on 2020-02-01]
PMID: 30564886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487.Psychodermatology: a molecular link between psoriasis and anxiety disorder.

This article describes premises for the development of psychodermatology. An
analysis of research literature and data is presented based on the example of
psoriasis and anxiety disorder. Protein molecules with altered concentrations in 
patients with psoriasis and anxiety disorder compared to controls are identified 
(chemokine [C-C motif] ligand 2, corticotropin-release hormone, growth hormone 1,
leptin, and tumor necrosis factor with increased concentration and brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor with decreased concentration). All molecules are secretory
peptides. In the future, the information obtained may make it possible to pursue 
an in-depth study of the molecular mechanisms underlying psychodermatology.


PMID: 30564830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488.Association of generalized anxiety symptoms and panic with health care costs in
older age-Results from the ESTHER cohort study.

BACKGROUND: Little is known specifically about the association between
generalized anxiety symptoms or panic and health care costs in older age. The aim
of this study was to examine the association between generalized anxiety
symptoms, panic and health care costs in people aged 65 and over.
METHODS: Cross-sectional data from the 8-year follow-up of a large, prospective
cohort study, the ESTHER study, was used. Individuals aged 65 and over, who
participated in the study's home assessment, were included in this analysis
(n = 2348). Total and sectoral costs were analyzed as a function of either
anxiety symptoms, probable panic disorder, or a panic attack, while controlling
for selected covariates, using Two Part and Generalized Linear Models. Covariates
were chosen based on Andersen's Behavioral Model of Health Care Use.
RESULTS: There was no significant association between either of the anxiety or
panic measures and total health care costs. Stratified by health care sectors,
only the occurrence of a panic attack was significantly associated with incurring
costs for outpatient non-physician services (OR: 1.99; 95% CI: 1.15-3.45) and
inpatient services (OR: 2.14; 95% CI: 1.07-4.28). Other illness-related factors, 
such as comorbidities and depressive symptoms, were associated with health care
costs in several models.
LIMITATIONS: This was a cross-sectional study relying on self-reported data.
CONCLUSION: This study points to an association between a panic attack and
sector-specific health care costs in people aged 65 and over. Further research,
especially using longitudinal data, is needed.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.087 
PMID: 30562680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Optimism outweighs neuroticism and anxiety sensitivity to predict insomnia
symptoms in women after surgery for breast cancer.

PURPOSE: Insomnia symptoms are common among women who have undergone surgery for 
breast cancer. Personality traits are also believed to have an impact on sleep.
However, there are no reports to address the effects of personality traits on
sleep in women with breast cancer. This study examined the separate and competing
roles of neuroticism, anxiety sensitivity, and optimism in predicting
post-surgery insomnia symptoms.
METHODS: Women with breast cancer (n = 749) were enrolled the week prior to
surgery and required to complete a demographic questionnaire, the Chinese version
of Neuroticism subscale of NEO-Five Factor Inventory (CV-N-NEO-FFI), Anxiety
Sensitivity Index-3 (CV-ASI-3), and Life Orientation Test-Revised (CV-LOT-R).
Four weeks post-surgery, the Chinese version of Insomnia Severity Index (CV-ISI) 
was administered to evaluate insomnia symptoms.
RESULTS: Neuroticism (β = 0.317, p < 0.001), anxiety sensitivity (β = 0.220,
p < 0.001), and optimism (β = - 0.332, p < 0.001) could predict post-surgery
insomnia symptoms. When putting them together into one stepwise regression,
optimism (β = - 0.215, p < 0.001) became the statistically most important
predictor for insomnia symptoms. Optimism suppressed the predictions of insomnia 
symptoms provided by neuroticism (β = 0.114, p < 0.001) and anxiety sensitivity
(β = 0.079, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Neuroticism and anxiety sensitivity positively predicted insomnia,
but optimism negatively predicted insomnia. In particular, optimism plays a more 
important role in post-surgery insomnia symptoms in women with breast cancer
compared to neuroticism and anxiety sensitivity. Sleep intervention in women with
breast cancer should focus on enhancing their optimism level.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4610-6 
PMID: 30560420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490.Neuroticism predicts the impact of serotonin challenges on fear processing in
subgenual anterior cingulate cortex.

The personality trait neuroticism is associated with increased vulnerability to
anxiety and mood disorders, conditions linked with abnormal serotonin
neurotransmission and emotional processing. The interaction between neuroticism
and serotonin during emotional processing is however not understood. Here we
investigate how individual neuroticism scores influence the neural response to
negative emotional faces and their sensitivity to serotonergic tone. Twenty
healthy participants performed an emotional face task under functional MRI on
three occasions: increased serotonin tone following infusion of a selective
serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), decreased serotonin tone following acute
tryptophan depletion (ATD) protocol, and no serotonin challenge (control). During
the task, participants performed a gender-discrimination task of neutral, fearful
or angry facial expressions. Individual variations in neuroticism scores were
associated with neural response of subgenual anterior cingulate cortex to fearful
facial expressions. The association was however opposite under the two
serotoninergic challenges. The fear-related response in this region and
individual neuroticism scores correlated negatively during citalopram challenge
and positively during ATD. Thus, neuroticism scores were associated with the
relative impact of serotonin challenges on fear processing in subgenual anterior 
cingulate cortex. This finding may link to a neural mechanism for the variable
therapeutic effect of SSRI treatment observed in clinical populations.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-36350-y 
PMCID: PMC6297157
PMID: 30559408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491.Internet-Based Cognitive Behavioral Therapy With Real-Time Therapist Support via 
Videoconference for Patients With Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder, Panic Disorder, 
and Social Anxiety Disorder: Pilot Single-Arm Trial.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the first-line treatment for
adults with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder (PD), and social 
anxiety disorder (SAD). Patients in rural areas can access CBT via the internet. 
The effectiveness of internet-delivered cognitive behavioral therapy (ICBT) has
been consistently shown, but no clinical studies have demonstrated the
feasibility of ICBT with real-time therapist support via videoconference for OCD,
PD, and SAD at the same time.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility of
videoconference-delivered CBT for patients with OCD, PD, or SAD.
METHODS: A total of 30 Japanese participants (mean age 35.4 years, SD 9.2) with
OCD, SAD, or PD received 16 sessions of individualized videoconference-delivered 
CBT with real-time support of a therapist, using tablet personal computer (Apple 
iPad Mini 2). Treatment involved individualized CBT formulations specific to the 
presenting diagnosis; all sessions were provided by the same therapist. The
primary outcomes were reduction in symptomatology, using the Yale-Brown
obsessive-compulsive scale (Y-BOCS) for OCD, Panic Disorder Severity Scale (PDSS)
for PD, and Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale (LSAS) for SAD. The secondary outcomes
included the EuroQol-5 Dimension (EQ-5D) for Quality of Life, the Patient Health 
Questionnaire (PHQ-9) for depression, the Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7)
questionnaire for anxiety, and Working Alliance Inventory-Short Form (WAI-SF).
All primary outcomes were assessed at baseline and at weeks 1 (baseline), 8
(midintervention), and 16 (postintervention) face-to-face during therapy. The
occurrence of adverse events was observed after each session. For the primary
analysis comparing between pre- and posttreatments, the participants' points and 
95% CIs were estimated by the paired t tests with the change between pre- and
posttreatment.
RESULTS: A significant reduction in symptom of obsession-compulsion (Y-BOCS=-6.2;
Cohen d=0.74; 95% CI -9.4 to -3.0, P=.002), panic (PDSS=-5.6; Cohen d=0.89; 95%
CI -9.83 to -1.37; P=.02), social anxiety (LSAS=-33.6; Cohen d=1.10; 95% CI
-59.62 to -7.49, P=.02) were observed. In addition, depression (PHQ-9=-1.72;
Cohen d=0.27; 95% CI -3.26 to -0.19; P=.03) and general anxiety (GAD-7=-3.03;
Cohen d=0.61; 95% CI -4.57 to -1.49, P<.001) were significantly improved.
Although there were no significant changes at 16 weeks from baseline in EQ-5D
(0.0336; Cohen d=-0.202; 95% CI -0.0198 to 0.00869; P=.21), there were high
therapeutic alliance (ie, WAI-SF) scores (from 68.0 to 73.7) throughout
treatment, which significantly increased (4.14; 95% CI 1.24 to 7.04; P=.007). Of 
the participants, 86% (25/29) were satisfied with videoconference-delivered CBT, 
and 83% (24/29) preferred videoconference-delivered CBT to face-to-face CBT. An
adverse event occurred to a patient with SAD; the incidence was 3% (1/30).
CONCLUSIONS: Videoconference-delivered CBT for patients with OCD, SAD, and SAD
may be feasible and acceptable.


PMID: 30559094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. No evidence of differences in cognitive control in children with autism spectrum 
disorder or obsessive-compulsive disorder: An fMRI study.

Repetitive behaviors are among the core symptoms of both Autism Spectrum Disorder
(ASD) and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) and are thought to be associated
with impairments in cognitive control. However, it is still unknown how deficits 
in cognitive control and associated neural circuitry relate to the quality or
severity of repetitive behavior in children with these disorders. Therefore, we
investigated the behavioral and neural correlates of cognitive control using a
modified stop-signal task in a multicenter study of children (aged 8-12 years)
with ASD, OCD and typically developing (TD) children (N = 95). As both ASD and
OCD have high levels of comorbidity with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder
(ADHD), we did an exploratory analysis addressing ADHD-symptoms. We found that
children with ASD and OCD did not show deficits in cognitive control or changes
in brain activity in task-relevant neural networks when compared to TD children. 
However, increased activity in prefrontal brain areas was associated with
increased symptoms of comorbid ADHD. As such, this study does not support
differences in cognitive control or associated neural circuitry in children with 
ASD and OCD, but rather suggests that changes in cognitive control in these
disorders may be related to symptoms of comorbid ADHD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.dcn.2018.11.004 
PMID: 30559053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. The effectiveness of art therapy for anxiety in adults: A systematic review of
randomised and non-randomised controlled trials.

BACKGROUND: Anxiety disorders are one of the most diagnosed mental health
disorders. Common treatment consists of cognitive behavioral therapy and
pharmacotherapy. In clinical practice, also art therapy is additionally provided 
to patients with anxiety (disorders), among others because treatment as usual is 
not sufficiently effective for a large group of patients. There is no clarity on 
the effectiveness of art therapy (AT) on the reduction of anxiety symptoms in
adults and there is no overview of the intervention characteristics and working
mechanisms.
METHODS: A systematic review of (non-)randomised controlled trials on AT for
anxiety in adults to evaluate the effects on anxiety symptom severity and to
explore intervention characteristics, benefitting populations and working
mechanisms. Thirteen databases and two journals were searched for the period 1997
-October 2017. The study was registered at PROSPERO (CRD42017080733) and
performed according to the Cochrane recommendations. PRISMA Guidelines were used 
for reporting.
RESULTS: Only three publications out of 776 hits from the search fulfilled the
inclusion criteria: three RCTs with 162 patients in total. All studies have a
high risk of bias. Study populations were: students with PTSD symptoms, students 
with exam anxiety and prisoners with prelease anxiety. Visual art techniques
varied: trauma-related mandala design, collage making, free painting, clay work, 
still life drawing and house-tree-person drawing. There is some evidence of
effectiveness of AT for pre-exam anxiety in undergraduate students. AT is
possibly effective in reducing pre-release anxiety in prisoners. The AT
characteristics varied and narrative synthesis led to hypothesized working
mechanisms of AT: induce relaxation; gain access to unconscious traumatic
memories, thereby creating possibilities to investigate cognitions; and improve
emotion regulation.
CONCLUSIONS: Effectiveness of AT on anxiety has hardly been studied, so no strong
conclusions can be drawn. This emphasizes the need for high quality trials
studying the effectiveness of AT on anxiety.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0208716 
PMCID: PMC6296656
PMID: 30557381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494.Orthorexia nervosa: A behavioral complex or a psychological condition?

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Numerous studies have provided evidence for orthorexia
nervosa (ON), an eating pattern characterized by an almost manic obsession for
and fixation on healthy eating, to be of epidemiological relevance. However,
there is scientific debate on whether it is merely a behavioral or lifestyle
phenomenon as compared to a mental disorder. Aim of this cross-sectional study
was to explore whether ON is of epidemiological and clinical relevance, and
whether ON can be distinguished from other mental health disorders and healthy
lifestyle features.
METHODS: An online survey including a measure of orthorexic behaviors
[Duesseldorf Orthorexia Scale (DOS)], well-being and distress, eating behaviors, 
pathological eating, anxiety and depression, addictive behaviors,
obsessive-compulsive symptoms, personality, and health behaviors was completed by
713 subjects (79.8% women, 18-75 years, median age: 25 years).
RESULTS: Twenty-seven subjects (3.8%, 21 women) showed significant orthorexic
eating (DOS ≥ 30). ON cases reported lower well-being, lower satisfaction with
life, and higher current stress levels than non-ON cases. The highest percentage 
of variation in ON was explained by pathological eating (R2 = .380), followed by 
eating style, Mediterranean diet, compulsive symptoms, and subjective social
status. Importantly, ON provided hardly any additional predictive value for
well-being when also considering pathological eating.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Our data confirmed the epidemiological and clinical
relevance of orthorexic behaviors, but the strong conceptual overlap with other
mental health problems and pathological eating raise initial doubts as to whether
ON is a distinct mental health disorder category. This co-occurrence, unique
symptoms, and underlying processes need further exploration by comparing ON cases
with patients with other mental disorders.

DOI: 10.1556/2006.7.2018.129 
PMCID: PMC6376377
PMID: 30556782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495.What is so frightening about spiders? Self-rated and self-disclosed impact of
different characteristics and associations with phobia symptoms.

Spider phobia is a common and impairing mental disorder, yet little is known
about what characteristics of spiders that spider phobic individuals find
frightening. Using screening data from a clinical trial, we explored which
characteristics that spider-fearful individuals (n = 194) rated as having the
greatest impact on fear, used factor analysis to group specific characteristics, 
and explored linear associations with self-reported phobia symptoms. Second, a
guided text-mining approach was used to extract the most common words in
free-text responses to the question: "What is it about spiders that you find
frightening?" Both analysis types suggested that movement-related characteristics
of spiders were the most important, followed by appearance characteristics. There
were, however, no linear associations with degree of phobia symptoms. Our
findings reveal the importance of targeting movement-related fears in in-vivo
exposure therapy for spider phobia and using realistically animated spider
stimuli in computer-based experimental paradigms and clinical interventions such 
as Virtual Reality exposure therapy.



DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12508 
PMID: 30556593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Public stigma of obsessive compulsive disorder and schizophrenic disorder: Is
there really any difference?

A substantial delay for help-seeking is a serious problem for people with
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), a heterogeneous and debilitating mental
health condition. Stigma is a major barrier to treatment seeking and further
cause social and occupational impairment. Lack of comprehensive research led us
to examine the public's stigmatizing attitudes towards checking, contamination,
sexuality, aggression, and religion-related OCD symptoms, compared to
schizophrenia. After reading one of six random case vignettes, 621 adults
completed social distance scale. Analysis of Covariance or ANCOVA indicated that 
social distance towards violence and sexuality-related OCD symptoms and
schizophrenia did not differ; but social distance for those was higher than
religion, contamination, and checking subtypes. Although the contamination
vignette did not differ from religion and checking vignettes, the theme of
religion had a higher social distance than checking symptoms. Consequently, the
current findings imply that there is a difference in public stigma among various 
symptoms of OCD and symptoms related to sexuality and violence, as well as
schizophrenia, are associated with more social rejection. Thus, the general
public needs access to educational methods of intervention and contact to
eliminate stigma and improve the quality of life for people with mental health
disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.065 
PMID: 30554103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Genetic variability in the serotoninergic system and age of onset in anorexia
nervosa and obsessive-compulsive disorder.

The age of onset of some psychiatric disorders may have etiopathogenic and
clinical effects and may influence outcome. Following on from previous work by
our group where we showed that early onset anorexia nervosa (AN) and
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) shared a common genetic background, the aim
of the present study is to assess genetic pleiotropy related to the serotonergic 
system (SLC6A4, 5HTR2A, 5HTR2C, TPH2, SLC18A1), in a common phenotype such as
very-early age of onset. One hundred and sixteen adolescents diagnosed with AN
and 74 adolescents diagnosed with OCD participated in the present study. We
confirmed the existence of a genetic overlap between OCD and AN. Specifically, we
described genetic pleiotropy for age at onset across these disorders, associating
two SNPs (rs6311, rs4942587) of the HTR2A with the very-early onset phenotype.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.019 
PMID: 30554102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498.Prevalence and clinical correlations of obsessive-compulsive symptoms in
schizophrenia.

INTRODUCTION: Obsessive compulsive symptoms are often present in persons with
schizophrenia. Adequately powered studies to evaluate the effect of such symptoms
in the course of the disorder, are few.
AIM: We aimed to estimate the prevalence and type of obsessive-compulsive
symptoms in persons with schizophrenia.
METHODS: We evaluated 200 outpatients with schizophrenia (DSM-V) on the Positive 
and Negative Symptom Scale (PANSS) and the Yale Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale 
(YBOCS). Participants with or without obsessive compulsive symptoms were matched 
on age, gender and age of onset of schizophrenia. Appropriate analysis by
comparisons and correlations were performed.
RESULTS: Prevalence of obsessive-compulsive symptoms was 18.5% (n = 37/200). Most
common obsession was contamination and compulsion was cleaning/washing with a
prevalence of 51.35% and 63.33% respectively. There were no significant
differences between the two groups on age, gender, marital status, residence, age
of onset or total duration of illness of schizophrenia. The OC symptoms group had
significantly higher general psychopathology and PANSS total scores. There was
significant positive correlation between YBOCS total obsession scores (To) and
total PANSS scores (r = 0.358) (p = 0.030), as well as PANSS general
psychopathology subscale scores (Gt) (r = 0.395) (p = 0.016) and finally between 
total YBOCS scores (To + Tc) and PANSS positive subscale scores (Pt)(r = 0.344)
(p = 0.037).
CONCLUSION: There was a significant subgroup of schizophrenia patients (almost
one fifth) who complained of obsessive-compulsive symptoms. This group reported
significantly higher general psychopathology and could thus be said to be more
seriously ill, in an adequately powered cross sectional study.



DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2018.11.016 
PMID: 30553209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Predictive factors associated with driving under the influence among Brazilian
drug-using drivers.

The incidence of driving under the influence of psychoactive substances (DUI) and
its recidivism can be curtailed by the proper identification of specific and
predictive characteristics among drug users. In this sense, interpersonal
violence (IV), psychiatric comorbidity and impulsivity seem to play an important 
role in DUI engagement according to previous studies. There are, however, limited
data originated from low and middle income countries. In the present study,
drug-using Brazilian drivers reporting DUI (n = 75) presented a higher prevalence
of bipolar disorders (BD; DUI: 8% vs. non-DUI: 0%, p < 0.001), lower prevalence
of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD; DUI: 0% vs. non-DUI: 12.6%, p < 0.001),
and higher prevalence of childhood trauma (DUI: 65.3% vs. non-DUI: 46.8%,
p = 0.022) than those not reporting DUI (n = 79). The evaluation of impulsivity
though the Barratt Impulsivity Scale, which give impulsivity scores ranging from 
30 to 120, showed higher impulsivity scores in the DUI group (80.4 ± 8) than in
the non-DUI group (77.2 ± 10, p = 0.045). In general, subjects were young adults 
(mean age of 36 ± 9 years), Caucasians (58.4%), not married (61.0%), and with
elementary schooling (40.3%) with no significant differences in demographic
characteristics between drivers with and without DUI behavior. A multiple Poisson
regression model showed that individuals reporting IV as perpetrators and history
of childhood trauma were more likely to report DUI (PR: 1.66, 95%CI 1.22-2.7; PR:
1.57, 95%CI 1.02-2.42, respectively). The overlapping of violent situations
(childhood trauma, IV and DUI) in some individuals presented here corroborates
literature data suggesting that DUI can be an externalizing expression of a range
of risky behavior, such as impulsiveness and aggressiveness. Moreover, while BD
and higher impulsivity scores seem to act as risk factors for DUI, OCD was shown 
as a protective factor. These results corroborate the hypothesis that individuals
with high risk for DUI could probably be identified by multidimensional
assessment of cognitive, risky taking, and personality traits, which perhaps
could facilitate the development of focused interventions.



DOI: 10.1016/j.aap.2018.12.003 
PMID: 30553128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Comorbidity of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and Generalized Anxiety
Disorder in children and adolescents.

The aim of the study is to explore the impact of Generalized Anxiety Disorder
(GAD) comorbidity in children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
(ADHD). Six hundred children with ADHD (mean age = 9.12 years), recruited from
2013 to 2017, participated in the study. A total of 96 (16%) children with ADHD
displayed a comorbidity with GAD. ADHD + GAD were compared to 504 ADHD children
without GAD in terms of cognitive and psychiatric profile, ADHD subtype and
family psychiatric history. The ADHD + GAD, predominantly represented from ADHD
combined (72.6%), displayed higher psychiatry comorbidity, in particular with
depressive disorders, and were associated with higher rates of maternal
depression, of ADHD in fathers, and bipolar disorders in second degree relatives.
Moreover, younger preschool-primary school age children with ADHD + GAD showed
significant higher frequency of depressive disorders versus younger
preschool-primary children with ADHD without GAD. ADHD + GAD comorbidity
represents a more complex clinical condition compared to ADHD without GAD,
characterized by the higher frequency of multiple comorbidities and by a
psychiatric family with higher rates of mood and disruptive disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.10.078 
PMID: 30551325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Impact of physical or sexual childhood abuse on plasma DHEA, DHEA-S and cortisol 
in a low-dose dexamethasone suppression test and on cardiovascular risk
parameters in adult patients with major depression or anxiety disorders.

While the impact of childhood trauma on basal and dynamic cortisol regulation has
widely been studied, the most abundant steroid hormones dehydroepiandrosterone
(DHEA) and its sulphated derivative DHEA-S have received little attention in this
context. One-hundred in-door patients suffering from major depression or an
anxiety disorder filled in the Childhood Trauma Questionaire. A low dose
dexamethasone suppression test (DST) measuring DHEA, DHEA-S and cortisol was
performed. Furthermore, various cardiovascular risk parameters were measured.
Forty-six percent of the patients reported a history of substantial physical or
sexual childhood abuse. However, no significant differences in plasma DHEA or
DHEA-S emerged in the DST between the traumatised group and the remaining
patients. Basal plasma cortisol was significantly lower in the childhood trauma
group. No impact of childhood trauma history on cardiovascular risk factor
profile was detected. Current limited data about DHEA or DHEA-S in patients with 
childhood trauma are equivocal. Further study using more sophisticated assessment
of trauma history and simultaneously measuring a multitude of putative biomarkers
of traumatization are needed.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.10.068 
PMID: 30551319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Prevention of anxiety and depression in school children: Effectiveness of the
transdiagnostic EMOTION program.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to examine the effectiveness of a
transdiagnostic program (EMOTION, Coping Kids Managing Anxiety and Depression)
targeting symptoms of anxiety and depression in schoolchildren by comparing the
intervention condition (EC) to a control condition (CC).
METHOD: A clustered randomized design was used with schools as the unit of
randomization. Children (N = 1686) aged 8-12 years in 36 schools completed
screening using the Multidimensional Anxiety Scale (MASC-Child) and The Mood and 
Feelings Questionnaire Short version (SMFQ-Child). Scoring 1 SD above a
population-based mean on anxiety and/or depression, 873 children were invited to 
participate. Intent-to-treat analyses were performed, and mixed-effects models
were used.
RESULTS: Analyses revealed significant reductions of anxious and depressive
symptoms as reported by the children, in which children in the intervention
condition EC had almost twice the reduction in symptoms compared with the control
condition CC. For parent report of the child's depressive symptoms, there was a
significant decrease of symptoms in the intervention condition EC compared with
CC. However, parents did not report a significant decrease in anxious symptoms in
the intervention condition EC as compared with CC.
CONCLUSION: A transdiagnostic prevention program, provided in schools, was
successful in reducing youth-reported symptoms of anxiety and depression and
parent-reported depression. The EMOTION program has the potential to reduce the
incidence of anxious and depressive disorders in youth. (PsycINFO Database Record
(c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/ccp0000360 
PMID: 30550301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. The Burden of Caring for a Child or Adolescent With Pediatric Acute-Onset
Neuropsychiatric Syndrome (PANS): An Observational Longitudinal Study.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the longitudinal association between disease severity,
time established in clinical treatment, and caregiver burden in a community-based
patient population diagnosed with pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome
(PANS).
METHODS: The study included an observational longitudinal cohort design, with
Caregiver Burden Inventories (CBIs) collected between April 2013 and November
2016 at the Stanford PANS multidisciplinary clinic. Inclusion criteria for this
study were as follows: pediatric patients meeting strict PANS/pediatric
autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections
(PANDAS) diagnostic criteria (n = 187), having a caregiver fill out at least 1
complete CBI during a disease flare (n = 114); and having family who lives
locally (n = 97). For longitudinal analyses, only patients whose caregiver had
filled out 2 or more CBIs (n = 94 with 892 CBIs) were included. In the study
sample, most primary caregivers were mothers (69 [71.1%] of 97), the majority of 
PANS patients were male (58 [59.8%] of 97), and mean age at PANS onset was 8.8
years.
RESULTS: In a patient's first flare tracked by the clinic, 50% of caregivers
exceeded the caregiver burden score threshold used to determine respite need in
care receiver adult populations. Longitudinally, flares, compared with
quiescence, predicted increases in mean CBI score (6.6 points; 95% CI, 5.1 to
8.0). Each year established in clinic predicted decreased CBI score (-3.5 points 
per year; 95% CI, -2.3 to -4.6). Also, shorter time between PANS onset and entry 
into the multidisciplinary clinic predicted greater improvement in mean CBI score
over time (0.7 points per year squared; 95% CI, 0.1 to 1.3). Time between PANS
onset and treatment with antibiotics or immunomodulation did not moderate the
relationship between CBI score and time in clinic.
CONCLUSIONS: PANS caregivers suffer high caregiver burden. Neuropsychiatric
disease severity predicts increased caregiver burden. Caregiver burden tends to
decrease over time in a group of patients undergoing clinical treatment at a
specialty PANS clinic. This decrease could be independent of clinical treatment.



DOI: 10.4088/JCP.17m12091 
PMID: 30549499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Are overweight people more susceptible to anxiety?

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to investigate anxiety status and its relationship
with body mass index (BMI) among empty nesters in China, so as to improve their
quality of life and provide direction for further research.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey was conducted among 4901 empty nesters in
Shanxi, China. Anxiety, weight, height, depression, socio-demographic variables, 
attention to daily nutritional health, social activities, and self-care ability
were evaluated in the study. T-tests and chi-square tests were used to compare
differences in categorical and continuous variables. Binary logistic regression
was performed to explore the association between anxiety and BMI among male and
female empty nesters.
RESULTS: The results showed that 44.5% of empty nesters reported anxiety, of
which, 43.2% were male participants and 45.9% were female participants. After
adjusting for other variables, overweight empty nesters odds ratio (OR; 95%
confidence interval [CI]) = 0.813 (0.692-0.954) were less likely to be anxious,
compared with their normal-weight counterparts. Gender was a significant factor
in the relationship, with the negative association between overweight and anxiety
only found in female empty nesters OR (95%CI) = 0.718 (0.572-0.901). Income,
education, complete self-care ability, and depression showed significant
associations with anxiety.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of anxiety was high in the study population. Gender is
a significant factor in the relationship between anxiety and BMI among empty
nesters. The results intend to inform the government and media that overweight is
a protective factor for anxiety among female empty nesters, necessitating a move 
toward eliminating weight bias.



DOI: 10.1002/gps.5050 
PMID: 30548677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Reduced fear-of-self is associated with improvement in concerns related to
repugnant obsessions in obsessive-compulsive disorder.

OBJECTIVE: The potential causal and maintaining role of vulnerable self-themes
and beliefs about the self in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have received
increasing attention from cognitive-behavioural theorists. This interest was
translated into the development of a self-report measurement of the feared self
(the fear of who one might be or become), a construct theoretically and
empirically pertinent to unwanted thoughts and impulses in OCD (i.e., repugnant
obsessions).
METHOD: The current study aimed to provide converging evidence on the relevance
of the feared self in OCD, by examining whether improvements in symptoms
associated with repugnant obsessions (measured on the Vancouver Obsessional
Compulsive Inventory [VOCI] obsessions subscale) would be predicted by reduced
feared self-perceptions (measured on the Fear-of-Self Questionnaire [FSQ]) in a
sample of 93 patients receiving psychotherapy for OCD.
RESULTS: Using a series of hierarchical linear regression models, we found that
treatment-related reductions on the FSQ significantly and uniquely predicted
reductions on the VOCI obsessions subscale and the contamination subscale.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study thus replicated previous research suggesting the
relevance of the feared possible self in psychological disorders such as OCD,
where negative self-perception is a dominant theme.
PRACTITIONER POINTS: Current results suggest that changes in feared
self-perceptions may be the mechanism through which OCD symptoms improve via
therapy. Interventions specifically aimed at changing feared self-perceptions may
prove effective in improving cognitive-behavioural treatments for OCD. One
limitation of the current study is the lack of behavioural measures of OCD to
supplement self-report measures of OCD. Another limitation is that the small
number of patients receiving some of the treatments precludes investigations into
which treatments may be more effective in altering feared self-perceptions.



DOI: 10.1111/bjc.12214 
PMID: 30548626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Hoarding symptoms and workplace impairment.

OBJECTIVES: A prior study found that over 50% of treatment-seeking individuals
who hoard incur at least one psychiatric work impairment day (i.e., they are
unable to work or are less effective at work due to poor mental health) each
month. The aim of the current study was to assess work-related variables
associated with workplace impairment in a non-treatment-seeking sample.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional. Self-report questionnaires were administered via
Amazon's Mechanical Turk.
METHODS: One hundred and eighty-five employed individuals who reported elevated
hoarding symptoms completed questionnaires regarding hoarding symptoms, work
engagement, psychiatric work impairment, work control, attention and
concentration difficulties at work, and quality of workplace relationships.
RESULTS: Greater workplace control and higher quality workplace relationships
were associated with greater work engagement. Greater hoarding symptoms and
attention difficulties at work were associated with more psychiatric work
impairment days. Work engagement statistically mediated the association between
the quality of workplace relationships and work impairment, though mediation was 
also significant when reversing the mediating and outcome variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Among a community sample of employed individuals, greater hoarding
symptoms were associated with greater psychiatric work impairment. Work-related
variables, such as co-worker relationships and attention difficulties,
contributed additional variance above that accounted for by hoarding symptoms.
There were significant associations between co-worker relationships, work
engagement, and workplace impairment, though the direction of the mediation model
is unclear. Future research should examine factors associated with unemployment
in hoarding disorder.
PRACTITIONER POINTS: Clinicians should be aware that greater hoarding severity
directly contributes to greater workplace impairment. Clinicians should consider 
prioritizing the reduction in clutter in living areas that impact one's daily
activities and subsequent ability to attend work. Clinicians should assess and
treat workplace impairment by helping individuals achieve greater control at
work, developing higher quality interpersonal relationships, and improving their 
attentional abilities.



DOI: 10.1111/bjc.12212 
PMID: 30548281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Prevalence of anxiety disorders and symptoms in people with hearing impairment: a
systematic review.

PURPOSE: Anxiety disorders are common. Prevalence is likely to be raised in
people with hearing impairment, who experience higher rates of associated risk
factors. We conducted, to our knowledge, the first systematic review of the
prevalence and correlates of anxiety in people with hearing impairment.
METHODS: We searched electronic databases and references of included studies,
using predetermined criteria to retrieve original research reporting prevalence
of anxiety disorders or symptoms in adult, hearing impaired populations. We
assessed risk of bias using the adapted Newcastle Ottawa Scale.
RESULTS: We included 25 studies evaluating 17,135 people with hearing impairment.
Community studies of higher quality reported a lifetime prevalence of anxiety
disorder of 11.1% (one study) and point prevalences of 15.4-31.3% for clinically 
significant anxiety symptoms (five studies) in people who predominantly had
acquired hearing impairment. Anxiety prevalence was higher in hearing impaired
people in 8/10 studies with a comparator non-hearing impaired group. Anxiety
symptoms decreased after surgical intervention for hearing in all studies
investigating this. Correlates consistently associated with anxiety were tinnitus
and hearing impairment severity.
CONCLUSIONS: Prevalence of anxiety is higher among people with hearing impairment
than the general population; our findings indicate that this excess morbidity may
be related to the hearing impairment itself, as it was associated with the
severity of impairment, and reduced after surgical treatment. Clinicians should
be aware of the potential impact of hearing on mental health, and that where
hearing ability can be improved, this may reduce anxiety.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42018088463.

DOI: 10.1007/s00127-018-1638-3 
PMID: 30547211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508.The contribution of neurologic disorders to the national prevalence of depression
and anxiety problems among children and adolescents.

PURPOSE: Depression and anxiety are growing global public health issues and
affect millions of children and adolescents in the United States. Although
individuals with neurologic disorders (NDs) are at increased risk of adverse
mental health disorders, they represent a minority of the population. The purpose
of this study was to characterize the national prevalence of depression and
anxiety problems in children and adolescents by the presence of various NDs.
METHODS: Parent-reported data from the 2016 National Survey of Children's Health 
were analyzed in children and adolescents with and without NDs aged 6-17 years.
RESULTS: The prevalence of depression and anxiety problems varied by the type of 
ND (0%-18.5% and 2.8%-62.5%, respectively). In the combined group of children and
adolescents with NDs (weighted estimate: 1,998,654), the prevalence of depression
and anxiety problems was 15.3% and 37.9%, respectively, whereas in children and
adolescents without NDs (weighted estimate: 47,644,055), the prevalence was 3.4% 
and 7.3%, respectively. Children and adolescents with NDs represented 4.0% of the
total sample, but 15.7% and 17.7% of the overall sample with depression and
anxiety problems, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Children and adolescents with NDs contribute to a considerable
portion of the overall prevalence of depression and anxiety problems despite only
representing 4% of the population.



DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2018.11.003 
PMCID: PMC6344250
PMID: 30545763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Action-Outcome Knowledge Dissociates From Behavior in Obsessive-Compulsive
Disorder Following Contingency Degradation.

BACKGROUND: In obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), actions persist despite being
inappropriate to the situation and without relationship to the overall goal.
Dysfunctional beliefs have traditionally been postulated to underlie this
condition. More recently, OCD has been characterized in terms of an imbalance
between the goal-directed and the habit systems. To test these competing
hypotheses, we used a novel experimental task designed to test subjective
action-outcome knowledge of the effectiveness of actions (i.e., instrumental
contingency), together with the balance between goal-directed and habitual
responding.
METHODS: Twenty-seven patients with OCD and 27 healthy control subjects were
tested on a novel task involving the degradation of an action-outcome
contingency. Sensitivity to instrumental contingency and the extent to which
explicitly reported action-outcome knowledge guided behavior were probed by
measuring response rate and subjectively reported judgments.
RESULTS: Patients with OCD responded more than healthy control subjects in
situations in which an action was less causally related to obtaining an outcome. 
However, patients showed intact explicit action-outcome knowledge, as assessed by
self-report. In patients, the relationship between causality judgment and
responding was altered; therefore, their actions were dissociated from explicit
action-outcome knowledge.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate reduced sensitivity to instrumental
contingency in OCD, reinforcing the notion of a deficient goal-directed system in
this disorder. By showing a dissociation between subjectively reported
action-outcome knowledge and behavior, the data provide experimental evidence for
the ego-dystonic nature of OCD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.bpsc.2018.09.014 
PMCID: PMC6374986
PMID: 30545754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Music therapy intervention in cardiac autonomic modulation, anxiety, and
depression in mothers of preterms: randomized controlled trial.

BACKGROUND: Mothers of preterm infants often have symptoms of anxiety and
depression, recognized as risk factors for the development of cardiovascular
diseases and associated with low rates of heart rate variability (HRV). This
study aimed to evaluate the influence of music therapy intervention on the
autonomic control of heart rate, anxiety, and depression in mothers.
METHODS: Prospective randomized clinical trial including 21 mothers of preterms
admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of a tertiary hospital, recruited
from August 2015 to September 2017, and divided into control group (CG; n = 11)
and music therapy group (MTG; n = 10). Participants underwent anxiety and
depression evaluation, as well as measurements of the intervals between
consecutive heartbeats or RR intervals for the analysis of HRV at the first and
the last weeks of hospitalization of their preterms. Music therapy sessions
lasting 30-45 min were individually delivered weekly using receptive techniques. 
The mean and standard deviation of variables were obtained and the normality of
data was analyzed using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. The paired sample t-test or 
Wilcoxon test were employed to calculate the differences between variables before
and after music therapy intervention. The correlations anxiety versus heart
variables and depression versus heart variables were established using Spearman
correlation test. Fisher's exact test was used to verify the differences between 
categorical variables. A significance level of p < 0.05 was established.
Statistical analysis were performed using the Statistical Package for the Social 
Sciences, version 20.
RESULTS: Participants in MTG had an average of seven sessions of music therapy,
and showed improvement in anxiety and depression scores and autonomic indexes of 
the time domain (p < 0.05). Significant correlations were found between
depression and parasympathetic modulation using linear (r = - 0.687; p = 0.028)
and nonlinear analyses (r = - 0.689; p = 0.027) in MTG.
CONCLUSION: Music therapy had a significant and positive impact on anxiety and
depression, acting on prevention of cardiovascular diseases, major threats to
modern society.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Brazilian Registry of Clinical Trials (no. RBR-3x7gz8 ).
Retrospectively registered on November 17, 2017.

DOI: 10.1186/s40359-018-0271-y 
PMCID: PMC6292022
PMID: 30545420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Are orthorexia nervosa symptoms associated with cognitive Inflexibility?

This study investigated whether symptoms of orthorexia nervosa, a conjectured
disorder characterized by obsessive thoughts and compulsive behaviors regarding
healthy eating, are associated with cognitive inflexibility. Participants (25 in 
the orthorexia symptoms group, 25 in the control group) completed the Eating
Habits Questionnaire and computerized versions of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test
and the Trail Making Test. Of the 11 variable measurements from these cognitive
tests, only one significantly differed between the groups, with the orthorexia
symptoms group making more errors than the control group on the first part of the
Trail Making Test that does not actually require any set shifting. These results 
suggest that although orthorexia is associated with inflexible thoughts and
behaviors specific to healthy eating, the condition does not seem to be
associated with cognitive inflexibility as an executive function deficit.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.12.017 
PMID: 30544072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. A systematic review on the therapeutic effectiveness of non-invasive brain
stimulation for the treatment of anxiety disorders.

The interest in the use of non-invasive brain stimulation for enhancing neural
functions and reducing symptoms in anxiety disorders is growing. Based on the
DSM-V classification for anxiety disorders, we examined all available research
using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) and transcranial direct
current stimulation (tDCS) for the treatment of specific phobias, social anxiety 
disorder, panic disorder, agoraphobia, and generalized anxiety disorder. A
systematic literature search conducted in PubMed and Google Scholar databases
provided 26 results: 12 sham-controlled studies and 15 not sham-controlled
studies. With regard to the latter sub-group of studies, 9 were case reports, and
6 open label studies. Overall, our work provides preliminary evidence that both, 
excitatory stimulation of the left prefrontal cortex and inhibitory stimulation
of the right prefrontal cortex can reduce symptom severity in anxiety disorders. 
The current results are discussed in the light of a model for the treatment for
anxiety disorders via non-invasive brain stimulation, which is based on
up-/downregulation mechanisms and might serve as guide for future systematic
investigations in the field.



DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2018.12.012 
PMID: 30543906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Predictors of polypharmacy among elderly Thais with depressive and anxiety
disorders: findings from the DAS study.

BACKGROUND: Polypharmacy is a geriatric syndrome defined variously as the use of 
potentially inappropriate drugs and/or the concurrent use of multiple medications
including prescription and over-the-counter drugs. An association has been shown 
between polypharmacy and physical health, increased morbidity and increased
mortality. However, there is little information regarding the association between
polypharmacy and physical disease, personality trait and mental health problems
in elderly. The aim of this study was to investigate potential predictive
psychosocial factors related to polypharmacy in elderly Thai people.
METHODS: The study analysed the secondary data from the Depressive Disorders,
Anxiety Disorders, Suicide Risk and Associated Factors Among Elderly Thai People 
Program (DAS Study) which was funded by National Research Council of Thailand and
conducted between January 2012 and April 2013. Demographic and baseline clinical 
characteristics including sex, age, education, living alone or with others,
access to health care privilege and monthly income were described. The number of 
medication, physical diseases and mental health problems (i.e. depression,
anxiety, and personality trait of neuroticism) were analyzed using descriptive
statistics, chi-square and proportional odds logistic regression.
RESULTS: The 803 participants consumed an average of 2.13 prescribed medicines
daily (SD 1.46, median = 2). The largest group used 3 medications (18.6%).
Predictors found to be associated with polypharmacy in the logistic regression
model included hypertension (OR = 1.985, 95% CI = 1.420-2.775), anxiety disorder 
(OR = 4.402, 95% CI = 2.630-7.367), number of diseases (OR = 2.140, 95%
CI = 1.874-2.445), depressive disorder (OR = 1.470, 95% CI = 1.080-2.001),
diabetes mellitus (OR = 1.864, 95% CI = 1.122-3.098) and dyslipidemia
(OR = 0.511, 95%CI = 0.325-0.803).
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of polypharmacy among Thai elderly was relatively
high compared to other related studies. Several aspects should be taken into
consideration before starting an additional medication in elderly patients. In
addition to the number of physical disease that leads to polypharmacy, general
practitioners should be aware of anxiety, depression, and personality trait of
neuroticism that may be related to polypharmacy. Early detection for such
condition as well as non-pharmacological intervention could be one way to help
reduce polypharmacy in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-018-1001-2 
PMCID: PMC6292154
PMID: 30541459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514.Individual white matter bundle trajectories are associated with deep brain
stimulation response in obsessive-compulsive disorder.

BACKGROUND: The ventral anterior limb of the internal capsule (vALIC) is a target
for deep brain stimulation (DBS) in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
Conventional surgical planning is based on anatomical landmarks.
OBJECTIVE/HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesized that treatment response depends on the
location of the active DBS contacts with respect to individual white matter
bundle trajectories. This study thus aimed to elucidate whether vALIC DBS can
benefit from bundle-specific targeting.
METHODS: We performed tractography analysis of two fiber bundles, the anterior
thalamic radiation (ATR) and the supero-lateral branch of the medial forebrain
bundle (MFB), using diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) data.
Twelve patients (10 females) who had received bilateral vALIC DBS for at least 12
months were included. We related the change in OCD symptom severity on the
Yale-Brown obsessive-compulsive scale (Y-BOCS) between baseline and one-year
follow-up with the distances from the active contacts to the ATR and MFB. We
further analyzed the relation between treatment response and stimulation sites in
standard anatomical space.
RESULTS: We found that active stimulation of the vALIC closer to the MFB than the
ATR was associated with better treatment outcome (p = 0.04; r2 = 0.34). In
standard space, stimulation sites were largely overlapping between treatment
(non)responders, suggesting response is independent of the anatomically defined
electrode position.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that vALIC DBS for OCD may benefit from
MFB-specific implantation and highlight the importance of corticolimbic
connections in OCD response to DBS. Prospective investigation is necessary to
validate the clinical use of MFB targeting.



DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2018.11.014 
PMID: 30522916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515.Why Is Maternal Depression Related to Adolescent Internalizing Problems? A
15-Year Population-Based Study.

OBJECTIVE: Exposure to maternal depression during early childhood is a
well-documented risk factor for offspring's internalizing problems, but the
long-term risk and the psychosocial mechanisms underlying the association remain 
largely unknown. We examined whether maternal depression during early childhood
was associated with offspring internalizing problems in adolescence, and the
extent to which negative parenting, peer victimization, and poor friendship
quality during middle childhood mediated this association.
METHOD: We report on a population-based sample of children (n = 1,443)
followed-up from 5 months to 15 years. We use yearly assessments of the exposure 
variable, that is, maternal depression (5 months to 5 years); the putative
mediators, that is, peer victimization, friendship quality, and parenting
practices (6-12 years); and assessment of the outcome variables at 15 years:
self-reported major depressive (MD), generalized anxiety (GA), and social phobia 
(SP) symptoms. Structural equation modeling was used to test mediation by peer
and family relationships.
RESULTS: Exposure to maternal depression during early childhood was associated
with higher levels of adolescent MD, GA, and SP. Peer victimization was the only 
significant mediator and explained 35.9% of the association with adolescent MD,
22.1% of that with GA, and 22.1% of that with SP.
CONCLUSION: Exposure to maternal depression prior to age 5 years was associated
with depression, anxiety, and social phobia extending to adolescence via its
impact on peer victimization during middle childhood. Particular attention should
be paid to victimization as one potential psychosocial factor via which maternal 
depression is associated with adolescent internalizing problems.




DOI: 10.1016/j.jaac.2018.04.024 
PMID: 30522737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516.Zooming In and Zooming Out: A Network Perspective on the Comorbidity of
Depression and Anxiety.

Several statistical techniques are available to shed light on the structure of
psychopathology, and each is valuable in its own way. It is, however, important
to realize that the results of these techniques are substantially influenced by
the structure of the studied instrument. Network analyses are no exception and do
not perform miracles. However, they are unique in embracing the diversity of
psychopathology, as the approach is both specific, by zooming in on individual
symptoms, and transdiagnostic, by zooming out on the broad spectrum of
psychopathology. Therefore, I genuinely believe that it will move our field
forward.




DOI: 10.1016/j.jaac.2018.07.880 
PMID: 30522736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517.No evidence of attentional bias toward angry faces in patients with
obsessive-compulsive disorder.

OBJECTIVE: Although attentional bias (AB) toward angry faces is well established 
in patients with anxiety disorders, it is still poorly studied in
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). We investigated whether OCD patients present
AB toward angry faces, whether AB is related to symptom severity and whether AB
scores are associated with specific OCD symptom dimensions.
METHOD: Forty-eight OCD patients were assessed in clinical evaluations,
intelligence testing and a dot-probe AB paradigm that used neutral and angry
faces as stimuli. Analyses were performed with a one-sample t-test, Pearson
correlations and linear regression.
RESULTS: No evidence of AB was observed in OCD patients, nor was there any
association between AB and symptom severity or dimension. Psychiatric comorbidity
did not affect our results.
CONCLUSION: In accordance with previous studies, we were unable to detect AB in
OCD patients. To investigate whether OCD patients have different brain activation
patterns from anxiety disorder patients, future studies using a transdiagnostic
approach should evaluate AB in OCD and anxiety disorder patients as they perform 
AB tasks under functional neuroimaging protocols.

DOI: 10.1590/1516-4446-2018-0130 
PMCID: PMC6794136
PMID: 30540026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518.Autism Spectrum Disorder and the Experience of Traumatic Events: Review of the
Current Literature to Inform Modifications to a Treatment Model for Children with
Autism.

Children with autism incur trauma and have increased vulnerabilities for
experiencing trauma. This paper summarizes the current literature in the study of
trauma in typically developing children and those with autism. A treatment model 
for children with autism, drawing on components from cognitive behavior therapy
(CBT), trauma-focused CBT, and CBT to teach emotion regulation and treat anxiety 
in children with autism is suggested. Components include: (a) Functional Behavior
Assessment; (b) behavior plans and behavioral skills training; (c) teaching
emotion regulation; (d) exposure therapy; (e) cognitive restructuring; (f) parent
and child support between sessions; (g) safety plan; and (h) programming for
generalization and maintenance. Future research should establish evidence-based
treatment of trauma in this population by evaluating the modified treatment
package.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-018-3854-9 
PMID: 30539370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519.Repetitive Behaviors in Frontotemporal Dementia: Compulsions or Impulsions?

OBJECTIVE: The presence of repetitive behaviors is one of the core criteria for
behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD). Patients with bvFTD often
have perseverative, stereotyped, or compulsive-ritualistic behavior as an early
aspect of their disorder. It is unclear whether such behaviors are related to
compulsions, as in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), or are part of the
impulse disorder spectrum.
METHODS: The authors investigated early (within 3 years) repetitive behaviors
among 93 well-characterized patients who met International Consensus Criteria for
clinically probable bvFTD and compared the results with the literature on OCD.
The most common repetitive behaviors among 59 (63.4%) bvFTD patients were
stereotypies of speech (35.5%), simple repetitive movements (15.2%-18.6%),
hoarding and collecting (16.9%), and excessive or unnecessary trips to the
bathroom (13.5%).
RESULTS: Only hoarding and collecting was significantly common in both bvFTD and 
OCD; otherwise, the bvFTD patients had very low frequencies of the common OCD
behaviors of checking, cleaning, counting, and ordering. The repetitive behaviors
in bvFTD were not associated with verbalized anxiety, obsessional ideation, or
reports of relief after completing the act. In contrast, these behaviors were
often triggered by environmental stimuli and could be temporarily prevented from 
completion without undue distress. Finally, among the bvFTD patients, the
repetitive behaviors were always associated with impulsive or disinhibited
behaviors, such as inappropriate verbal or physical behavior.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that the repetitive behaviors in bvFTD are
repetitive impulsions, possibly from specific involvement of
frontostriatal-anterior temporal pathology.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.neuropsych.18060148 
PMCID: PMC6535208
PMID: 30537913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Patterns of obsessive-compulsive symptoms and social functioning in
schizophrenia; a replication study.

Research has found that Obsessive Compulsive Symptoms (OCS) in schizophrenia are 
associated with either more or less negative symptoms and either better or poorer
cognitive functioning. In order to explain these contradictory results,
(Lysaker et al., 2004), performed a cluster analysis resulting in 2 OCS positive 
(OCSpos) clusters, one with higher functioning (HF) and one with poorer
functioning (PF) compared to 2 OCS negative (OCSneg) clusters. The OCSpos/HF
cluster had less negative symptoms compared to all other clusters, while the
OCSpos/PF cluster showed poorer executive functioning. We performed a replication
study, in an almost 10 times larger, representative sample, using both a
longitudinal and cross-sectional design. Similar to Lysaker et al., we found a
group with mild OCS and HF (OCSmild/HF) showing less negative symptoms compared
to the PF groups. We also found an OCSmild/PF group, which did not significantly 
differ in executive functioning from the other groups. Moreover, we did not find 
evidence for a better prognosis in the OCSmild/HF group, and thus found no
support for the assumption that for some patients OCS might be an effective
coping mechanism.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.11.071 
PMID: 30537664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Prevalence of Depression, Anxiety and PTSD in People with Dementia: a Systematic 
Review and Meta-Analysis.

There appears to be a link between depression/anxiety/PTSD and dementia, although
the evidence is incomplete and the reason is unclear. Mental illness may cause
dementia or may be prodromal or comorbid with dementia, or dementia may trigger a
relapse of symptoms in individuals with a history of mental illness. This study
examined the link between depression/anxiety/PTSD and dementia by evaluating the 
prevalence of these disorders in people with dementia, relative to their healthy 
peers. Existing meta-analyses have examined the prevalence of
clinically-significant depression and anxiety in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and
depression in frontotemporal dementia (FTD), but have not considered vascular
dementia (VaD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), PTSD, or anxiety in FTD. The
current meta-analysis compared the prevalence of clinically-significant
depression, anxiety and PTSD in the four most common types of dementia (AD, VaD, 
DLB, FTD) and in unspecified dementia to that of healthy controls (PROSPERO
number: CRD42017082086). PubMed, EMBASE, PsycINFO and CINAHL database searches
identified 120 eligible studies. Prevalence rates were calculated for depression 
and anxiety in AD, VaD, DLB, FTD, unspecified dementia, and controls. PTSD data
were only available for unspecified dementia. Subgroup analyses indicated that
depression, but not anxiety, was more prevalent in people with dementia compared 
to controls; however, the anxiety analyses were probably under-powered. The
results support a link between depression and dementia; however, the link between
anxiety or PTSD and dementia remains unclear due to insufficient data.
Longitudinal data is now needed to clarify whether depression/anxiety/PTSD may be
risk factors for dementia.

DOI: 10.1007/s11065-018-9396-2 
PMID: 30536144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. A lethal case of hoarding due to the combination of traumatic and confined space 
asphyxia.

Hoarding is defined as the acquisition of, and failure to discard, possessions of
little use or value to others, usually associated with a significant degree of
clutter in the individual's home. We describe a case of a woman who died from a
combined traumatic and confined space asphyxia, after being trapped under some of
the objects amassed in her apartment. The event was considered to be accidental; 
by taking into account the information gathered during assessment of the scene,
we believe that the accident took place while entering or exiting the apartment. 
It appears that the woman, who was trying to open or close the door, could have
been using her leg to keep the objects piled behind the door from falling.
Unfortunately the pile of hoarded objects collapsed and the woman was fatally
trapped underneath them. The age and strength of the woman played an important
role in the fatal incident, she was too old and weak to remove the items that had
collapsed over her body. The scarcity of space between the collapsed objects and 
the woman, as well as the absence of external or internal signs of violent
asphyxiation, or other causes of death, allowed us to establish that the death
resulted from a combined mechanism of both the traumatic and the confined space
asphyxiation.

DOI: 10.1007/s12024-018-0056-x 
PMID: 30535912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. The Open Field Test for Measuring Locomotor Activity and Anxiety-Like Behavior.

The open field test is used in studies of the neurobiological basis of anxiety
and screening for novel drug targets and anxiolytic compounds. This test uses a
camera to measure movement of the test animal in the peripheral and central zones
of a 42 × 42 × 42 cm polyvinyl chloride box. This chapter describes a protocol
for carrying out the open-field test for assessment of locomotion and
anxiety-like behavior in mice.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-8994-2_9 
PMID: 30535687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Object Burying Test for Assessment of Obsessive Compulsive Behaviors in Mice.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) can occur in several psychiatric illnesses
such as autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and it is more prevalent in children.
This condition is characterized by repeated and apparently meaningless behaviors 
such as frequent hand washing, counting, tapping, and rocking. This can disrupt
normal socialization and in some cases lead to self-harm. Therefore there is
interest in developing more effective therapies for individuals suffering from
these conditions. This chapter describes how to conduct the mouse marble burying 
test as a sensitive measure of compulsive behaviors.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-8994-2_6 
PMID: 30535684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Trajectories of sleep quality from late pregnancy to 36 months postpartum and
association with maternal mood disturbances: a longitudinal and prospective
cohort study.

Study Objectives: To examine trajectories of poor sleep quality from late
pregnancy to 36 months postpartum, baseline indicators, and association with
prospective maternal mood disturbances.
Methods: A cohort of 262 nonclinical women was followed at late pregnancy, 42
days, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, and 36 months postpartum. Sleep quality was measured
with the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index at all time points, and mood disturbances
were assessed at late pregnancy and 36 months postpartum.
Results: The rate of poor sleep quality followed an inverted U-shaped curve.
Women reporting poor sleep quality at late pregnancy held a consistently higher
risk of poor sleep quality at postpartum points. Three sleep trajectories were
distinguished, namely, the stable-low (29.4%), the decreasing-mild (56.5%), and
the stable-high (14.1%). Poor sleep quality, depression, and anxiety at baseline 
were linked to trajectory groups with poorer sleep quality. Adjusting for
covariates, the trajectory of the poorer sleep quality group demonstrated
increased mood disturbances at 36 months postpartum. Replicating the analyses in 
women without baseline symptoms of depression and anxiety above clinical cutoffs 
obtained similar results.
Conclusions: Women are vulnerable to poor sleep quality from late pregnancy to
postpartum years, but follow distinct trajectories. Poor sleep quality,
depression, and anxiety at late pregnancy help us to anticipate the sleep
trajectories. Trajectories of poor sleep quality indicate increased mood
disturbances at 36 months postpartum. A flexible suite of interventions targeting
both poor sleep quality and mood disturbances should be implemented and tailored 
to women in the prenatal and postpartum periods.

DOI: 10.1093/sleep/zsy179 
PMID: 30535183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526.Three diagnostic psychiatric subgroups in comparison to self-stigma, quality of
life, disorder severity and coping management cross-sectional outpatient study.

BACKGROUND: Much attention has been paid to psychological factors influencing
characteristics, severity, and course of mental disorders. The objective of our
investigation was to examine the interrelations among quality of life (QoL),
self-stigma, and coping strategies, demographics and severity of the disorder in 
neurotic spectrum disorders, schizophrenia, and depressive spectrum disorders.
METHODS: A total of 343 clinically stable Czech outpatients with different mental
disorders (153 with neurotic spectrum disorders; 81 with depression, and 109 with
schizophrenia spectrum disorders) were included. The patients were examined by
their outpatient psychiatrists during regular psychiatric checkup and completed
a sociodemographic questionnaire, the Quality of Life Satisfaction and the
Enjoyment Questionnaire (Q-LES-Q), the Internalized Stigma of Mental Illness
Scale (ISMI), the Stress Coping Style Questionnaire (SVF-78), and the Clinical
Global Impression scale (CGI).
RESULTS: The study demonstrates that the self-stigma and coping strategies are
significant factors linked to the QoL in all diagnostic groups of patients.
Patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders had lower scores in QoL compared
to the other two groups. The patients with depression or neurotic spectrum
disorders had a lesser degree of self-stigma than the patients with schizophrenia
spectrum disorders. The severity of the illness significantly correlated with the
QoL, self-stigma, and coping strategies.
CONCLUSIONS: The investigation confirmed the connection between the quality of
life, self-stigma, coping strategies, and the severity of the illness, in
outpatients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders, depressive, and neurotic
spectrum disorders. A further longitudinal study would be useful to determine the
causative relationships of these variables.


PMID: 30531709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Acute Exercise Effects among Young Adults with Analogue Generalized Anxiety
Disorder.

Recent findings support positive effects of acute aerobic exercise on worry,
state anxiety, and feelings of energy and fatigue among young adult women with
subclinical, or analogue, generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). However, exercise
effects among young adult men with analogue GAD are unstudied.PURPOSE: This study
replicated initial findings of positive effects of acute vigorous-intensity
aerobic exercise on worry, state anxiety, and feelings of energy and fatigue
among young adult women with analogue GAD, examined responses among young adult
men with analogue GAD, and explored sex-related differences and moderation by
physical activity level, trait anxiety, depression, and poor sleep status.
METHODS: Thirty-five young adults (21.4 ± 2.3 yr; 19 males; 16 females) with Penn
State Worry Questionnaire scores ≥45 (60 ± 8) completed two counterbalanced
30-min conditions: treadmill running at ~71.2% ± 0.04% HR reserve and seated
quiet rest. Outcomes included worry, worry engagement, absence of worry, state
anxiety, and feelings of energy and fatigue.
RESULTS: No outcome or moderator differed at baseline between sexes. Exercise
significantly improved state anxiety (P < 0.04; d = 0.27) and feelings of energy 
(P < 0.001; d = 1.09). Small nonsignificant improvements were found for worry (d 
= 0.22), worry engagement (d = 0.18), and feelings of fatigue (d = 0.21). The
magnitude of improvements in worry, worry engagement, absence of worry, and
feelings of energy were stronger among females. Significant large, potentially
clinically meaningful increases in feelings of energy were found among women (d =
1.35) and men (d = 0.92). A nonsignificant, but potentially clinically
meaningful, moderate reduction in worry (d = 0.53) was found among women.
High-trait anxiety and poor sleep quality were supported as moderators.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings replicated positive effects of acute aerobic exercise among
young adult women with analogue GAD, and extended to support for positive effects
among young adult men with analogue GAD.

DOI: 10.1249/MSS.0000000000001860 
PMID: 30531490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. An 8-Week, Randomized, Phase 2, Double-Blind, Sequential Parallel-Group
Comparison Study of Two Dose Levels of the GABAA Positive Allosteric Modulator
PF-06372865 Compared With Placebo as an Adjunctive Treatment in Outpatients With 
Inadequate Response to Standard of Care for Generalized Anxiety Disorder.

BACKGROUND: Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a common psychiatric disorder, 
but many patients experience only partial relief of symptoms with existing
therapies. Benzodiazepines are effective in many cases but are limited by a
number of significant adverse effects. PF-06372865 is a subtype-selective
gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA)-positive allosteric modulator lacking in
functional activity at alpha 1-containing receptors that are believed to mediate 
many of these adverse effects.
METHODS: PF-06372865 was evaluated as an adjunct to current GAD treatment in a
double-blind, placebo-controlled, sequential parallel comparison study in
patients with GAD who showed an incomplete response to current standard-of-care
pharmacotherapy. A total of 90 subjects (of the planned 384) were randomized into
the study before the decision to terminate the study. Two doses of PF-06372865
(2.5 mg twice daily and 7.5 mg twice daily) were compared with placebo.
RESULTS: Neither dose of PF-06372865 differentiated from placebo on week 4
Hamilton Anxiety Inventory total (primary end point) or on the Sheehan Disability
Scale total score (secondary end point). Adverse events including dizziness,
headache, and somnolence were observed, and the 7.5 mg dose demonstrated some
impairment on the Digit Symbol Substitution test and the Epworth Sleepiness Scale
relative to placebo and the 2.5 mg dose.
CONCLUSIONS: Factors contributing to the negative results include the limited
sample size and failure to explore a broader range of doses.

DOI: 10.1097/JCP.0000000000000997 
PMID: 30531477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529.Using the PHQ-9 and GAD-7 to screen for acute distress in transgender youth:
findings from a pediatric endocrinology clinic.

Background Transgender and gender nonconforming (TGNC) youth are at higher risk
for anxiety and depression than their peers. The referral rate for those seeking 
specialty medical care has rapidly increased in recent years. This paper examines
the use of brief screening tools with clear cutoffs to assist physicians in
rapidly identifying TGNC youth in acute distress. Methods A retrospective chart
review was conducted for patients aged 11-18 years being treated in a pediatric
endocrinology clinic for gender dysphoria. Patient Health Questionnaires for
depression (PHQ-9) and Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item (GAD-7) were collected
for patients attending an initial consultation (n=79) or follow-up appointment
(n=115). Results Screener data identified high rates of acute distress, including
depression (47%), anxiety (61%), and suicidal ideation (30%). Distress was not
associated with age or gender identity. More youth endorsed clinically
significant anxiety at initial consultation appointments versus follow-up
appointments. Conclusions The results support the use of the PHQ-9 and GAD-7 as
brief, easy-to-use screening measures that can be administered by physicians to
rapidly identify acute distress and inform treatment recommendations among TGNC
youth seeking medical intervention.

DOI: 10.1515/jpem-2018-0408 
PMID: 30530884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530.Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and its Comorbid Mental
Disorders: An Evaluation of their Labor Market Outcomes.

BACKGROUND: Attention-deficit/hyper-activity disorder's (ADHD) prevalence rate
has been increasing during the last decade. Evidence from different studies
suggests that the effect of ADHD on earnings and employment could be more
detrimental than other disorders such as depression or anxiety. Although it is
widely known that these mental disorders can coexist with ADHD, none of these
studies has considered the joint evaluation of ADHD and its comorbidities.
OBJECTIVE: In this paper, we evaluate whether ADHD is a more severe disorder than
three other comorbid mental disorders -- learning disabilities, depression, and
anxiety -- regarding their effects on earnings and employment.
METHODS: We use the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent to Adult Health to 
estimate regression models of earnings and employment. We consider the use of the
sampling weights, school fixed effects, and multiple imputation of missing
values. Robustness checks include a more exogenous measure of depression.
RESULTS: On average, an individual with ADHD or depression (but not both) has
around 20% lower earnings than those without any of these disorders. The earnings
gap for learning disabilities is around 25%. The probability of being employed is
5 percentage points lower for an individual who has any of these disorders.
Anxiety is not associated with lower earnings. Females with learning disabilities
have an earnings gap that is 20 percentage points larger than males. The
employment gap for females or African Americans with learning disabilities is 8%.
DISCUSSION AND LIMITATIONS: In contrast to existing evidence, we find that ADHD
is not more serious than learning disabilities or depression. Although the
magnitude of each employment gap is not substantial, the fact that these are
comorbid disorders indicates that their joint occurrence could be detrimental for
employment. Females and African Americans with learning disabilities could face
more adverse labor market outcomes. Even though our results are robust to a more 
exogenous measure of depression, the potential endogeneity of the diagnosis of
ADHD or anxiety could still bias the estimates. However, baseline results are
also robust when individuals with an age of diagnosis equal to the year of the
interview are dropped from the estimations.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICY AND FOR FUTURE RESEARCH: The increasing number of 
Supplemental Security Income beneficiaries with ADHD is in line with the observed
tendency to screen for ADHD more frequently than for other comorbid disorders,
and with the evidence of ADHD overdiagnosis. Since our study shows that other
disorders are equally or potentially more disabling than ADHD in terms of labor
market outcomes, mental health policies should be reoriented to prevent policies 
targeting ADHD from crowding out those for other mental disorders. It would be
interesting to verify our findings using a more recent cohort with a higher rate 
of ADHD diagnosis. Since we show that there are unexplained gender and race
differences that persist after controlling for educational attainment or the
number of hours worked, more research is needed to determine the reason behind
these differences. Further research about the positive school effect on the
adulthood performance of ADHD children is needed.


PMID: 30530871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531.Assessing health-related quality of life of patients with colorectal cancer using
EQ-5D-5L: a cross-sectional study in Heilongjiang of China.

AIM: This study aimed to assess the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of
patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) and its determinants.
METHODS: A cross-sectional questionnaire survey was conducted on 300 newly
diagnosed patients with CRC in China's Heilongjiang province, measuring HRQoL
using the EuroQol five-dimension five-level (EQ-5D-5L). Kruskal-Wallis analyses
were performed to identify the independent variables associated with the EQ-5D-5L
utility scores. Predictors of the utility scores were confirmed using a Tobit
regression model.
RESULTS: The respondents had a mean EQ-5D-5L utility score of 0.617 (SD=0.371)
and a median of 0.740 (range: -0.348 to 1.000). Pain/discomfort and
anxiety/depression were major concerns of the respondents, with a prevalence of
over 60% (all levels inclusive). The Kruskal-Wallis analyses found lower utility 
scores in those who were not married, worked as a farmer, enrolled with the new
rural cooperative medical scheme and had lower household income (p<0.05). Those
who were at a later stage of CRC, underwent surgical only therapy and had a stoma
also had lower EQ-5D-5L scores than others (p<0.05). The Tobit regression model
confirmed these predictors, except for occupation and marital status.
CONCLUSION: Patients with CRC have poor HRQoL, with pain/discomfort and
depression/anxiety as the most frequently reported problems. The poor HRQoL is
associated with the seriousness of the disease condition, as well as the low
socioeconomic status of the patients.

PMID: 30530472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]



532.Individual differences in trait anxiety are associated with gray matter
alterations in hypothalamus: Preliminary neuroanatomical evidence.

Trait anxiety is particularly a prone phenotype for the development of anxiety
disorders and depression. Studying the neural underpinnings of trait anxiety can 
further inform our understanding of the etiology of these disorders. To
investigate the structural correlates of trait anxiety, high resolution
structural images were acquired from 76 right-handed healthy participants and
gray matter volumes were extracted from a priori regions of interest (ROIs) that 
were earlier implicated in anxiety like behaviour (i.e., hippocampus, amygdala,
anterior cingulate cortex, thalamus, hypothalamus and prefrontal (dorsolateral,
rostrolateral, ventrolateral) cortex. In a partial correlation analysis (with
age, gender, and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) scores as covariates of no
interest), trait anxiety was found to be negatively correlated with the gray
matter volume of hypothalamus bilaterally and positively correlated with the gray
matter volume of left thalamus. In a hierarchical multiple regression analysis,
grey matter volume of hypothalamus and left thalamus were found to be the
significant predictors of trait anxiety. Our findings thus suggest that a smaller
gray matter volume in the hypothalamus and an increase in the gray matter volume 
of left thalamus is related to a disposition to high anxiety personality trait.



DOI: 10.1016/j.pscychresns.2018.11.008 
PMID: 30530256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533.Influence of kinesiophobia and pain catastrophism on objective function in women 
with patellofemoral pain.

OBJECTIVES: (i) To compare kinesiophobia, pain catastrophism and objective
function between women with patellofemoral pain (PFP) and pain-free; (ii) to
investigate the association of kinesiophobia and pain catastrophism with objetive
function in women with PFP.
DESIGN: Case-control.
SETTING: Laboratory-based.
PARTICIPANTS: Fifty-five women with PFP and forty pain-free women.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Kinesiophobia and pain catastrophism were assessed using
the Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia and Pain Catastrophizing Scale, respectively.
Forward step-down, single leg hop, and modified star balance tests were used to
assess objective function. Independent t-tests were used for between-groups
comparisons and Pearson correlation coefficients were used to investigate the
association between the outcomes.
RESULTS: Women with PFP had significantly worse kinesiophobia (p < 0.001; Effect 
size (ES) = 1.16), pain catastrophism (p < 0.001; ES = 1.57), and poorer
objective function (step-down, (p < 0.001; ES = 0.99); single-leg hop (p = 0.002;
ES = 0.74); modified star balance (p < 0.001; ES = 0.66) than pain-free controls.
Kinesiophobia and pain catastrophism were not correlated with objective function.
CONCLUSION: Greater kinesiophobia, pain catastrophism and poorer objective
function is evident in women with PFP, compared to pain-free controls.
Kinesiophobia and pain catastrophism were not associated with objective function 
in women with PFP. Future research is necessary to understand how other physical 
and psychological factors might affect objective function.



DOI: 10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.11.013 
PMID: 30529861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534.Evaluation of pain, functional capacity and kinesiophobia in women in the chronic
stage of chikungunya virus infection: A cross-sectional study in northeastern
Brazil.

Arboviral diseases have been considered a global public health problem due to
their growing territorial dispersion and impact on the population around the
world. Individuals affected by the chikungunya virus go through an acute febrile 
illness associated with severe pain and long-lasting polyarthralgia. After the
initial stage, infected individuals may progress to the chronic stage, which has 
an epidemic character and a high rate of disability and reduced mobility,
impacting negatively on their quality of life. The aim of this study was to
evaluate the relationship between pain, functional capacity, and kinesiophobia in
individuals in the chronic stage of chikungunya virus infection. A
cross-sectional study was conducted in the city of Natal, in Rio Grande do Norte,
Brazil, between July and September 2018. The participants were 59 women in the
chronic stage of chikungunya virus infection. Data were collected in at physical 
therapy outpatient clinic of the Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte
(UFRN), using a socio-demographic questionnaire, the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS),
the Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire (NMQ), the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI),
the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), and the Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia 
(TSK). Descriptive statistics and bivariate analysis of the time data were
conducted by simple regression. The participants' mean age was just over 50 years
and average duration of virus infection was 21.54 months. Most participants had
moderate to severe pain intensity that more frequent in the ankle and wrist
joints. Functional capacity was low, and there was moderate fear of performing
exercises and activities of daily living. Duration of infection was associated
with increased pain intensity and loss of functional capacity. We can conclude
that women in the chronic stage of chikungunya infection have significant pain,
reduced functional capacity, and fear of performing common movements of daily
living.



DOI: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2018.12.008 
PMID: 30529444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535.Non-AIDS-related comorbidities in people living with HIV-1 aged 50 years and
older: The AGING POSITIVE study.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the profile of non-AIDS-related comorbidities (NARC)
in the older HIV-1-infected population and to explore the factors associated with
multiple NARC.
METHODS: This was a multicentre, cross-sectional study including HIV-1-infected
patients aged ≥50 years, who were virologically suppressed and had been on a
stable antiretroviral therapy (ART) regimen for at least 6 months. A multiple
regression model explored the association between demographic and clinical
variables and the number of NARC.
RESULTS: Overall, 401 patients were enrolled. The mean age of the patients was
59.3 years and 72.6% were male. The mean duration of HIV-1 infection was 12.0
years and the median exposure to ART was 10.0 years. The mean number of NARC was 
2.1, and 34.7% of patients had three or more NARC. Hypercholesterolemia was the
most frequent NARC (60.8%), followed by arterial hypertension (39.7%) and chronic
depression/anxiety (23.9%). Arterial hypertension and diabetes mellitus were the 
most frequently treated NARC (95.6% and 92.6% of cases, respectively). The linear
regression analysis showed a positive relationship between age and NARC (B=0.032,
95% confidence interval 0.015-0.049; p=0.0003) and between the duration of HIV-1 
infection and NARC (B=0.039, 95% confidence interval 0.017-0.059; p=0.0005).
CONCLUSIONS: A high prevalence of NARC was found, the most common being
metabolic, cardiovascular, and psychological conditions. NARC rates were similar 
to those reported for the general population, suggesting a larger societal
problem beyond HIV infection. A multidisciplinary approach is essential to reduce
the burden of complex multi-morbid conditions in the HIV-1-infected population.


DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2018.10.011 
PMID: 30529370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Combined effects of depression and anxiety on suicide: A case-control
psychological autopsy study in rural China.

Most of the previous researches indicated depression and anxiety were potential
risk factors for suicide, and they were also highly correlated. However, few
studies have explored their combined effects on suicide and the dimensions which 
really work. A total of 392 suicide cases aged 15-34 years and 416 community
controls of the same age range were investigated. The results showed that after
controlling confounding factors, people with low depression and high anxiety,
with high depression and low anxiety, with high depression and high anxiety were 
at 2.46, 26.32, 54.77 times more risk for suicide (all P < 0.05), compared with
subjects with low depression and low anxiety. Only two of seven dimensions of
depression (including cognitive disturbance, helplessness, excluding anxiety
dimension) and one of two dimensions of STAI anxiety (anxiety dimension, not
depression dimension) were risk factors for suicide (all OR > 1). Our main
findings was that combined effects of depression and anxiety on suicide were
complicated, and the effects of anxiety dimension of depression and depression
dimension of anxiety must be cautiously evaluated, avoiding overlapping
inclusion.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.11.010 
PMCID: PMC6382523
PMID: 30529321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. The roles of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived
neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in predicting treatment remission in a Chinese Han
population with generalized anxiety disorder.

Neurotrophic factors, particularly brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and
glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), are involved in
neuroplasticity in the nervous system. To explore the characteristics of BDNF and
GDNF and their roles in predicting treatment remission in a Chinese Han
population with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), 85 GAD patients were treated 
with escitalopram or venlafaxine randomly for 8 weeks. The serum BDNF/GDNF levels
were detected, while Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA) scores were measured at
baseline and after 8 weeks of treatment. The differences in serum BDNF/GDNF
levels between GAD patients (n = 85) and healthy controls (n = 73) and between
remission and nonremission were then compared. The serum BDNF levels were lower
in GAD patients (1197.24 ± 367.41 µg/L) than in healthy controls
(1378.09 ± 382.46 µg/L) (P < 0.05). The serum GDNF levels were also lower in GAD 
patients (10.19 ± 9.86 µg/L) than in healthy controls (13.73 ± 9.44 µg/L)
(P < 0.05). The BDNF level was negatively correlated with baseline HAMA score
(P < 0.05). The GDNF level was negatively correlated with baseline HAMA score
(P < 0.05). The BDNF level was positively correlated with GDNF level (P < 0.05). 
Both baseline BDNF/GDNF levels in remission and nonremission showed no
statistically significant differences. No significant correlation was found
between baseline BDNF level and the HAMA reduction rate or between baseline GDNF 
levels and the HAMA reduction rate. Both serum BDNF and GDNF were demonstrated to
be potential biomarkers of GAD, it seems that serum BDNF and GDNF levels can be
used to assess the baseline anxiety severity of GAD but cannot serve as a factor 
to predict treatment remission.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.08.111 
PMID: 30529313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538.Neuro-hemodynamic endophenotypes of emotional interference in OCD: fMRI study
using emotion counting stroop task.

BACKGROUND: We sought to examine the endophenotype pattern of neuro-hemodynamic
substrates of emotion counting Stroop (ecStroop) paradigm in patients with OCD,
their unaffected siblings [first degree relatives-FDR] and healthy controls (HC).
METHODS: OCD patients (medication naïve)[N = 16], their unaffected
siblings(FDR)[N = 16] and HC [N = 24] were compared using an established ecStroop
paradigm in a 3-Tesla fMRI. The relative BOLD signals corresponding to the three 
types of conditions (neural words-N, words with negative emotional salience-E and
words with salience for OCD-O) were examined in the apriori hypothesized brain
regions.
RESULTS: Both in O minus N contrast and O minus E contrast, the groups
demonstrated significant differential activation of right insula (BA 13). The
post-hoc analyses showed in patients and FDRs relative to HC the following:
significant hyperactivation of insula in O minus E contrast; significant
hyperactivation of right insula and right DLPFC (BA 9) in O minus N contrast.
CONCLUSIONS: The neuro-hemodynamic responses corresponding to the obsessive words
in insula and DLPFC could be potential endophenotypes. "Threat relatedness" might
thus have a vulnerability meaning in the pathogenesis and neurobiological basis
of OCD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2018.11.015 
PMID: 30528906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Psychobiome Feeding Mind: Polyphenolics in Depression and Anxiety.

Recently gut bacterial populations seem to be involved in many functions and in
the pathogenesis of several medical conditions. Traditionally the intestinal
microbiome has been recognized to play an important role in metabolizing food
compounds in simpler chemical structures for the absorption of different
nutrients, and in maintenance control of gastrointestinal pathogens species.
Bacterial populations are implicated in a complicated network of interactions
within the immune system, epithelial cells local endocrine system, that affects
the peripheral and the central nervous system, via blood circulation. Microbiome 
influencing the mind via immune, endocrine and metabolic signalling, is able to
exert some clinical effects in different mental diseases. It releases endocrine
substances through several pathways involved in the modulation of
neuroinflammation and production of several neurotrasmitter precursors. It has
recently been named psychobiome. It is known that phenolic compounds are able to 
influence microbiome proliferation and to exert several roles, especially
regarding neuroinflammation in depressive and anxious behaviour. The clinical
effects are reported in the literature. The aim of this study is to highlight the
interaction between polyphenols and microbiota- gut-brain axis.




DOI: 10.2174/1568026619666181210151348 
PMID: 30526463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. The contributions of affective traits and emotion regulation to internalizing
disorders: Current state of the literature and measurement challenges.

Dysfunctional affective processes are central to the experience of internalizing 
disorders (e.g., depression, anxiety, and related disorders). Specifically,
extreme positive affect and elevated negative affect each have unique and robust 
patterns of associations with internalizing symptoms. This article examines
affect as both an individual difference and a within-person dynamic process that 
unfolds over time. Recent research is reviewed that clarifies the hierarchical
structure of affect and facet-level associations with symptoms, affect-laden
traits that confer risk for internalizing psychopathology, models of emotion
regulation, and how emotion regulation abilities and strategies contribute to or 
detract from psychological well-being. Several measurement challenges in this
literature are identified and discussed, including possible conceptual and
content overlap, mood-state distortion, naturalistic assessment in daily life,
and the benefits and limitations of self-reported affective experience. (PsycINFO
Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/amp0000371 
PMCID: PMC6710628
PMID: 30525799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Examining the factor structure of the self-report Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive
Scale Symptom Checklist.

Obsessive-compulsive symptom dimensions are important in studies about the
pathogenesis and treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder. More than 30 factor 
analytic studies using the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale Symptom
Checklist (Y-BOCS-SC) interview version have been published. However, a drawback 
of the Y-BOCS-SC interview is that it is time-consuming for the clinician. Baer's
self-report version of the Y-BOCS-SC could be a less time-consuming alternative. 
The purpose of this study was to examine the factor structure of Baer's
self-report Y-BOCS-SC. In a sample of 286 patients, we performed two factor
analyses, one using categories and one using items of the Y-BOCS-SC. Using
category-level data, we identified four factors; when using items we identified
six factors. Symptom dimensions for contamination/cleaning,
symmetry/repeating/counting/ordering and hoarding were found in both analyses.
The impulsive aggression, pathological doubt, sexual, religious somatic and
checking categories formed one factor in the analysis using category-level data
and divided into three factors using item-level data. These factors correspond
with studies using the interview version and support our hypothesis that the
self-report version of the Y-BOCS-SC could be an alternative for the interview
version.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.11.042 
PMID: 30521999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542.Human pharmacology of positive GABA-A subtype-selective receptor modulators for
the treatment of anxiety.

Anxiety disorders arise from disruptions among the highly interconnected circuits
that normally serve to process the streams of potentially threatening stimuli.
The resulting imbalance among these circuits can cause a fundamental
misinterpretation of neural sensory information as threatening and can lead to
the inappropriate emotional and behavioral responses observed in anxiety
disorders. There is considerable preclinical evidence that the GABAergic system, 
in general, and its α2- and/or α5-subunit-containing GABA(A) receptor subtypes,
in particular, are involved in the pathophysiology of anxiety disorders. However,
the clinical efficacy of GABA-A α2-selective agonists for the treatment of
anxiety disorders has not been unequivocally demonstrated. In this review, we
present several human pharmacological studies that have been performed with the
aim of identifying the pharmacologically active doses/exposure levels of several 
GABA-A subtype-selective novel compounds with potential anxiolytic effects. The
pharmacological selectivity of novel α2-subtype-selective GABA(A) receptor
partial agonists has been demonstrated by their distinct effect profiles on the
neurophysiological and neuropsychological measurements that reflect the functions
of multiple CNS domains compared with those of benzodiazepines, which are
nonselective, full GABA(A) agonists. Normalizing the undesired pharmacodynamic
side effects against the desired on-target effects on the saccadic peak velocity 
is a useful approach for presenting the pharmacological features of GABA(A)-ergic
modulators. Moreover, combining the anxiogenic symptom provocation paradigm with 
validated neurophysiological and neuropsychological biomarkers may provide
further construct validity for the clinical effects of novel anxiolytic agents.
In addition, the observed drug effects on serum prolactin levels support the use 
of serum prolactin levels as a complementary neuroendocrine biomarker to further 
validate the pharmacodynamic measurements used during the clinical
pharmacological study of novel anxiolytic agents.

DOI: 10.1038/s41401-018-0185-5 
PMCID: PMC6786312 [Available on 2020-05-01]
PMID: 30518829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Norm values and psychometric properties of the brief symptom inventory-18
regarding individuals between the ages of 60 and 95.

OBJECTIVE: The SCL-90 and the SCL-90-R are the most applied measures regarding
psychological distress. To reduce and prevent an overload to of the individuals, 
the Brief Symptom Inventory with 18 items (BSI-18) was developed based on the
SCL-90. Since psychological disorders more frequently occur at an older age,
there is a growing need for efficient instruments to measure distress in the
elderly. However, the BSI-18's psychometric properties, norm values, and
factorial structure have not yet been investigated in this age group.
METHODS: The aim of this study was to evaluate the BSI-18 in a sample of elderly 
people and to establish norm values for this specific population. Subsequently,
demographic information and BSI-18 results were collected from a sample totaling 
884 (55% female, mean age of 70.75 years, SD = 7.08, age range = 60-95 years).
The questionnaire contains three six-item scales: somatization (SOMA), anxiety
(ANX), and depression (DEPR), which form a general symptom index (GSI).
RESULTS: We found an acceptable to good model fit for a three-factor-model with a
general GSI factor. The BSI-18's psychometric properties were satisfactory.
Strict measurement invariance was shown for age and gender. Additionally, we
found differences in psychological distress based on sociodemographic variables.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings underline the growing need for preventive mechanisms 
for elderly people such as, e.g., (re)activating their social networks and
strengthening their physical and psychological well-being.

DOI: 10.1186/s12874-018-0631-6 
PMCID: PMC6282287
PMID: 30518335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. "Leave It All Behind": The Role of Mental Demands and Mental Detachment in
Relation to Dance Students' Health and Well-Being.

AIMS: Adequate physical and mental (i.e., cognitive and emotional) recovery is
essential for dancers' health and well-being. However, studies investigating the 
role of mental demands and recovery in dance are scarce. A potentially effective 
mental recovery strategy is detachment from dance, which refers to the absence of
performance-related thoughts, emotions, and feelings during time away from dance.
The first aim of this study was to investigate the relation between 1) cognitive 
and emotional demands in dance and 2) health and well-being of dance students.
The second aim was to examine whether the recovery strategy of mental detachment 
moderated the relation between cognitive and emotional demands and dancers'
health and well-being.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey study was conducted among 80 full-time dance
students enrolled in a bachelor's degree in either dance (n=45) or dance teacher 
(n=35). Dependent variables were health problems, concentration difficulties, and
positive affect.
RESULTS: Hierarchical regression analyses showed that cognitive demands and
cognitive detachment were not associated with dance students' health and
well-being. In contrast, emotional demands were negatively related to positive
affect and positively related to concentration difficulties. Emotional detachment
was positively related to positive affect and negatively related to health
problems. Moreover, emotional detachment moderated (i.e., buffered) the negative 
relation between emotional demands and positive affect.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings highlight the importance of considering emotional
aspects of effort and recovery in dance. It is recommended that dance students
consider ways to emotionally distance themselves from negative dance-related
emotions and feelings during their free time.

DOI: 10.21091/mppa.2018.4038 
PMID: 30508828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Psychometric properties and clinical utility of brief measures of depression,
anxiety, and general distress: The PHQ-2, GAD-2, and K-6.

OBJECTIVE: The nine-item Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), seven-item
Generalized Anxiety Disorder scale (GAD-7), and ten-item Kessler Psychological
Distress Scale (K-10) are valid and reliable measures of depression, anxiety and 
general distress. However, the time required in their administration may limit
their use in routine care. This study examines the utility of shorter versions
(PHQ-2, GAD-2, and K-6) as screening instruments and measures of treatment
response.
METHOD: Data from research trial participants (n = 993) receiving
internet-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy (iCBT) were analysed to establish 
discriminant validity of the short versions. Mini International Neuropsychiatric 
Interview (MINI) diagnoses were used as comparators. Criterion group validity,
test-retest reliability, internal consistency, and responsiveness to treatment
changes were examined. Analyses were replicated using data from patients
receiving iCBT in routine care (n = 1389).
RESULTS: Discriminant validity was excellent for the PHQ-2, and acceptable for
the GAD-2 and K-6. Acceptable sensitivity and specificity were identified at a
threshold of ≥3 for the PHQ-2 and GAD-2, and ≥14 for the K-6. The short versions 
were sensitive to treatment change.
CONCLUSION: The PHQ-2, GAD-2 and K-6 are useful screeners and efficient measures 
of treatment progress and outcomes in routine clinical care.



DOI: 10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2018.11.003 
PMID: 30508772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Sustaining attendance at a mental health service: A randomized controlled trial.

OBJECTIVE: A substantial proportion of psychotherapeutic treatments are
prematurely terminated because the client discontinues attendance. Interventions 
have been developed to reduce premature termination, but these are only
moderately effective and often place considerable burden on clients and services.
This research evaluated a brief, low-cost self-regulation intervention (i.e.,
implementation intentions) designed to sustain attendance at a group
psychoeducation program.
METHOD: Clients (N = 82) who had been referred for a psychological intervention
due to anxiety or depression were sent a questionnaire concerning their views of 
attendance. Participants were randomly assigned to form an implementation
intention as part of the questionnaire or not (controls). Attendance was then
monitored over the 5 scheduled sessions of an evidence-based psychoeducational
intervention.
RESULTS: Intention-to-treat analyses indicated that forming implementation
intentions led to attendance at a greater number of sessions (M = 2.84 vs. 1.62),
p < .01, and higher rates of completing the full course of treatment compared to 
controls (35% vs. 11%), p < .02.
CONCLUSIONS: An intervention rooted in basic research on the psychology of action
increased and sustained attendance at a mental health service. (PsycINFO Database
Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/ccp0000341 
PMID: 30507230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547.Towards personalized, brain-based behavioral intervention for transdiagnostic
anxiety: Transient neural responses to negative images predict outcomes following
a targeted computer-based intervention.

OBJECTIVE: Clinical anxiety is prevalent, highly comorbid with other conditions, 
and associated with significant medical morbidity, disability, and public health 
burden. Excessive attentional deployment toward threat is a transdiagnostic
dimension of anxiety seen at both initial and sustained stages of threat
processing. However, group-level observations of these phenomena mask
considerable within-group heterogeneity that has been linked to treatment
outcomes, suggesting that a transdiagnostic, individual differences approach may 
capture critical, clinically relevant information.
METHOD: Seventy clinically anxious individuals were randomized to receive 8
sessions of attention bias modification (ABM; n = 41 included in analysis), a
computer-based mechanistic intervention that specifically targets initial stages 
of threat processing, or a sham control (n = 21). Participants completed a mixed 
block/event-related functional MRI task optimized to discriminate transient from 
sustained neural responses to threat.
RESULTS: Larger transient responses across a wide range of cognitive-affective
regions (e.g., ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex,
amygdala) predicted better clinical outcomes following ABM, in both a priori
anatomical regions and whole-brain analyses; sustained responses did not. A
spatial pattern recognition algorithm using transient threat responses
successfully discriminated the top quartile of ABM responders with 68% accuracy.
CONCLUSIONS: Neural alterations occurring on the relatively transient timescale
that is specifically targeted by ABM predict favorable clinical outcomes. Results
inform how to expand on the initial promise of neurocognitive treatments like ABM
by fine-tuning their clinical indications (e.g., through personalized mechanistic
intervention relevant across diagnoses) and by increasing the range of mechanisms
that can be targeted (e.g., through synergistic treatment combinations and/or
novel neurocognitive training protocols designed to tackle identified predictors 
of nonresponse). (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/ccp0000309 
PMCID: PMC6287282
PMID: 30507228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548.Interpretation training to target repetitive negative thinking in generalized
anxiety disorder and depression.

OBJECTIVE: Repetitive negative thinking (RNT) for example, worry in generalized
anxiety disorder (GAD) and rumination in depression, is often targeted during
psychological treatments. To test the hypothesis that negative interpretation
bias contributes to worry and rumination, we assessed the effects of inducing
more positive interpretations in reducing RNT.
METHOD: Volunteers diagnosed with GAD (66) or depression (65) were randomly
allocated to one of two versions of cognitive bias modification for
interpretation (CBM-I), either with or without RNT priming prior to training, or 
a control condition, each involving 10 Internet-delivered sessions. Outcome
measures of interpretation bias, a behavioral RNT task and self-reported worry,
rumination, anxiety and depression were obtained at baseline, after home-based
training and at 1-month follow-up (self-report questionnaires only).
RESULTS: CBM-I training, across diagnostic groups, promoted a more positive
interpretation bias and led to reductions in worry, rumination, and depressive
symptoms, which were maintained at follow-up. Anxiety symptoms were reduced only 
in the GAD group at follow-up. There were no differences between CBM-I versions; 
brief priming of RNT did not influence CBM-I effectiveness. Level of
interpretation bias post training partially mediated the effects of CBM-I on
follow-up questionnaire scores.
CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to some recent failures to demonstrate improvements
following Internet-delivered CBM, we found that self-reported RNT and negative
mood were reduced by CBM-I. This is consistent with a causal role for negative
interpretation bias in both worry and rumination, suggesting a useful role for
CBM-I within treatments for anxiety and depression. (PsycINFO Database Record (c)
2018 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/ccp0000310 
PMID: 30507227  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Cerebral resting state markers of biased perception in social anxiety.

Social anxiety (SA) comprises a multitude of persistent fears around the central 
element of dreaded negative evaluation and exclusion. This very common anxiety is
spectrally distributed among the general population and associated with social
perception biases deemed causal in its maintenance. Here, we investigated
cerebral resting state markers linking SA and biased social perception. To this
end, resting state functional connectivity (RSFC) was assessed as the
neurobiological marker in a study population with greatly varying SA using fMRI
in the first step of the experiment. One month later the impact of unattended
laughter-exemplifying social threat-on a face rating task was evaluated as a
measure of biased social perception. Applying a dimensional approach, SA-related 
cognitive biases tied to the valence, dominance and arousal of the threat signal 
and their underlying RSFC patterns among central nodes of the cerebral emotion,
voice and face processing networks were identified. In particular, the
connectivity patterns between the amygdalae and the right temporal voice area met
all criteria for a cerebral mediation of the association between SA and the
laughter valence-related interpretation bias. Thus, beyond this identification of
non-state-dependent cerebral markers of biased perception in SA, this study
highlights both a starting point and targets for future research on the causal
relationships between cerebral connectivity patterns, SA and biased perception,
potentially via neurofeedback methods.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-018-1803-1 
PMID: 30506458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Inflammatory gene expression in adipose tissue according to diagnosis of anxiety 
and mood disorders in obese and non-obese subjects.

Psychiatric disorders have been widely reported to be associated with systemic
inflammation upregulation and adiposity. However, there are no data that link
adipose tissue inflammation to these mental disorders. The analysis of adipokines
and inflammation-related markers in adipose tissue could help to elucidate the
potential association between obesity and mental health. An observational study
was conducted in samples of patients consisting of non-obese and obese subjects, 
who were diagnosed with anxiety or mood disorders. Gene expression of adiponectin
(ADIPOQ), leptin (LEP) and inflammatory markers (IL6, IL1B, TNF, CCL2, CSF3,
ITGAM, and PLAUR) were determined in visceral (VAT) and subcutaneous (SAT)
adipose tissues. Our results showed that the gene expression of adipokines and
inflammation-related markers was higher in the VAT and SAT of obese subjects
compared with non-obese subjects. Regarding mental disorders, all the
inflammatory genes in the VAT were significantly higher in non-obese subjects
with anxiety or mood disorders than in subjects without mental disorders, except 
for TNF and ITGAM. Additionally, IL6 expression was significantly lower in SAT.
In contrast, obese patients diagnosed with anxiety or mood disorders only showed 
significantly lower expression levels of IL1B in VAT and ADIPOQ in SAT when
compared with obese subjects without mental disorders. These data suggest the
potential involvement of VAT inflammation in anxiety and mood disorders,
involving complex mechanisms which are strongly affected by obesity.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-35759-9 
PMCID: PMC6269530
PMID: 30504920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. An exploration of concomitant psychiatric disorders in children with autism
spectrum disorder.

OBJECTIVE: We explored patterns of concomitant psychiatric disorders in a large
sample of treatment-seeking children and adolescents with autism spectrum
disorder (ASD).
METHODS: Participants were 658 children with ASD (age 3-17 years;
mean = 7.2 years) in one of six federally-funded multisite randomized clinical
trials (RCT) between 1999 and 2014. All children were referred for hyperactivity 
or irritability. Study designs varied, but all used the Child and Adolescent
Symptom Inventory or Early Childhood Inventory to assess Attention Deficit
Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), Oppositional-Defiant Disorder (ODD), Conduct
Disorder (CD), Anxiety Disorders, and Mood Disorders. In addition, several
measures in common were used to assess demographic and clinical characteristics.
RESULTS: Of the 658 children, 73% were Caucasian and 59% had an IQ >70. The rates
of concomitant disorders across studies were: ADHD 81%, ODD 46%, CD 12%, any
anxiety disorder 42%, and any mood disorder 8%. Two or more psychiatric disorders
were identified in 66% of the sample. Of those who met criteria for ADHD, 50%
also met criteria for ODD and 46% for any anxiety disorder. Associations between 
types of concomitant disorders and a number of demographic and clinical
characteristics are presented.
CONCLUSION: In this well-characterized sample of treatment-seeking children with 
ASD, rates of concomitant psychiatric disorders were high and the presence of two
or more co-occurring disorders was common. Findings highlight the importance of
improving diagnostic practice in ASD and understanding possible mechanisms of
comorbidity.



DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2018.10.012 
PMCID: PMC6295217
PMID: 30504071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. A discrete-choice experiment to assess treatment modality preferences of patients
with anxiety disorder.

AIMS: The aim of this study was to elicit the preference of patients with an
anxiety disorder regarding treatment modalities. Understanding patients'
preferences could help optimize treatment uptake and adherence to therapeutic
interventions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A discrete-choice experiment was used to elicit patients' 
preferences with regard to four treatment characteristics: waiting time until
first treatment, intensity of treatment, face-to-face vs digital treatment, and
group size. In 12 choice sets, participants were asked to choose between two
treatment alternatives. A random parameters logit model was used to analyse the
data.
RESULTS: A total of 126 participants, aged 18 years and older, currently or in
the previous year in treatment for an anxiety disorder, completed the survey.
Respondents preferred short (over long) waiting times, face-to-face (over
digital) treatment, individual (over group) treatment and a treatment intensity
of one session per week rather than two sessions per week or one session every
two weeks. Waiting time and treatment intensity were substantially less important
to patients than level of digitalization and group size. Heterogeneity in
preference was significant for each attribute, and sub-group analyses revealed
this was partly related to education level and age.
LIMITATIONS: The convenience sample over-represented the female and younger
population, limiting generalizability. Limited information on background
characteristics limited the possibilities to explore preference heterogeneity.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated how different treatment components for
anxiety disorders affect patients' preferences for those treatments. There is
significant variation in treatment preferences, even after accounting for age and
education. Incorporating patients' preferences into treatment decisions could
potentially lead to improved adherence of treatments for anxiety disorders.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1555403 
PMID: 30501135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553.Effectiveness of Venlafaxine in Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor-Resistant 
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: Experience From a Specialty Clinic in India.

BACKGROUND: Despite its favorable pharmacological profile and efficacy in major
depression and anxiety disorders, evidence for the use of venlafaxine in
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is limited. We sought to examine the
real-world effectiveness of venlafaxine from a large database of an OCD clinic in
India.
METHODS: A total of 1704 consecutive patients who registered at the OCD clinic
between June 2014 and December 2016 were evaluated with structured interviews and
scales. Patients with symptomatic OCD (Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Severity
≥16) despite treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and initiated
on venlafaxine were included for analysis. The main outcome measures were
response as defined by 35% or more reduction in the Yale-Brown
Obsessive-Compulsive Severity total score and "all-cause discontinuation."
RESULTS: Of a total of 65 patients who were eligible for analysis, 29(45%) were
responders at the end of 16 weeks and 27 (42%) continued to remain on
venlafaxine. Repeated measures analysis of variance yielded significant reduction
in the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Severity total score (F(1.29, 82.4) =
56.54, P < 0.001, partial η = 0.469). On regression analysis, only lower insight 
(P = 0.048) predicted poor response.
CONCLUSIONS: The study suggests that venlafaxine may be useful in a proportion of
patients with poor response to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and
therefore requires to be studied in controlled trials.

DOI: 10.1097/JCP.0000000000000989 
PMID: 30516575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Inferior thalamic peduncle deep brain stimulation for treatment-refractory
obsessive-compulsive disorder: A phase 1 pilot trial.

BACKGROUND: Several different surgical procedures targeting the limbic circuit
have been utilized for severe, treatment resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder;
however, there has only been limited exploration of the inferior thalamic
peduncle (ITP). The aim of this study was to determine the safety and initial
efficacy of ITP deep brain stimulation (DBS) in patients with severe
obsessive-compulsive disorder.
METHODS: Patients with severe, treatment-refractory obsessive-compulsive disorder
were enrolled into this open-label phase 1 DBS pilot study. Bilateral ITP DBS
devices were implanted between November 2010 and December 2015. The primary
outcome was safety. The initial efficacy was determined by Yale-Brown
Obsessive-Compulsive scale (YBOCs) scores. Component Y-BOCs scores, Hamilton
Depression Severity Scale, Quality of Life Assessment (SF-36), Oxford Happiness
Questionnaire, Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-Being Scale, and Sheehan Disability 
Scale were also analyzed for a minimum of 2 years after surgery. Additionally,
preoperative and three-month postoperative FDG-PET studies were performed on two 
patients.
RESULTS: Five patients (2 males, 3 females; age range 25-48 years) received ITP
DBS. All five patients were considered responders at one year (52% improvement in
YBOCs scores compared to baseline (range 39-73%, p < 0.01) and last follow-up
(54% improvement; range 38-85%; p < 0.01). At two years follow-up, there were
three adverse events that occurred in two patients. One patient had his DBS
system removed after one year due to the device becoming the object of his
obsession. The other two adverse events were not related to the device.
Post-operative FDG-PET imaging in two patients demonstrated decreased glucose
uptake within the right caudate, right putamen, right supplementary motor area,
and right cingulum and increased glucose uptake in bilateral motor areas, left
temporal pole, and left orbitfrontal cortex.
CONCLUSIONS: ITP DBS has a favorable safety profile and is potentially an
efficacious treatment for severe obsessive-compulsive disorder. Larger clinical
trials are necessary to determine efficacy.



DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2018.11.012 
PMID: 30514614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Transcranial direct current stimulation for the treatment of obsessive-compulsive
disorder? A qualitative review of safety and efficacy.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a highly disabling psychiatric disorder
characterized by recurrent obsessions and compulsions. It has a lifetime
prevalence of 1-3% in the general population and commonly has a chronic course.
First-line treatments consist of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and
cognitive-behavioral therapy but up to 60% of patients respond partially or not
at all to these treatments. This paper reviewed the literature on the safety and 
efficacy of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) for the treatment of
obsessive-compulsive disorder and discussed future directions for research and
clinical application. Criteria for inclusion were open or controlled studies on
tDCS and OCD that used validated rating scales along with well-described stimulus
parameters. In the majority of the limited number of published studies, most
patients with treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder had either
moderate or marked benefit with this technique different stimulation targets,
sometimes sustained for many months. This technique might be efficacious in the
treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder, although it is difficult to draw
definitive conclusions about its efficacy, future well-designed sham-controlled
studies are needed to confirm the safety and efficacy of tDCS for the treatment
of this condition.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.11.033 
PMID: 30508669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556.Early clinical predictors of long-term morbidity in major depressive disorder.

AIMS: To identify early clinical factors predictive of later morbidity in major
depressive disorder (MDD).
METHODS: We analysed factors associated with long-term depressive morbidity
(%-time ill) between a first-lifetime major depressive episode and last follow-up
of 116 adults diagnosed with DSM-IV major depressive disorder. Bivariate
comparisons were followed by multivariable linear regression modelling.
RESULTS: Three factors were independently associated with an average of
25%-time-depressed over 17 years at risk: (a) agitated-mixed, or psychotic
features in initial major depressive episodes, (b) anxiety syndromes prior to a
first-lifetime major depressive episode, and (c) anxiety symptoms in childhood.
CONCLUSION: Early anxiety symptoms and syndromes and agitated-mixed or psychotic 
initial depressive episodes predicted more long-term depressive morbidity in MDD.



DOI: 10.1111/eip.12768 
PMID: 30511367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Characterizing the nature of emotional-associative learning deficits in panic
disorder: An fMRI study on fear conditioning, extinction training and recall.

Emotional-associative learning represents a translational model for the
development, maintenance and treatment of anxiety disorders such as panic
disorder (PD). The exact nature of the underlying fear learning and extinction
deficits however, remains under debate. Using a three-day paradigm to separate
the distinct learning and consolidation processes, we aimed to gain insights into
the neurofunctional substrates of altered fear conditioning, extinction training 
and recall in PD. In contrast to studies employing one-session fear conditioning 
paradigms, a differential fear conditioning and delayed extinction task was
conducted for the purpose of disentangling neural networks involved in fear
acquisition, extinction training and recall of extinction memories. Using
functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), quality-controlled datasets from 10
patients with PD and 10 healthy controls were available from three consecutive
days (day 1: acquisition; day 2: extinction training; day 3: extinction recall)
with neutral faces serving as CSs and an aversive auditory stimulus (panic
scream) as US. PD patients showed heightened fear circuitry (e.g. right amygdala 
and left insula) activation during early acquisition and prolonged activation in 
the right insula, left inferior frontal operculum and left inferior frontal gyrus
during extinction recall compared to healthy controls. Stronger neural activation
in structures conferring defensive reactivity during early acquisition and
extinction recall may indicate the accelerated acquisition of conditioned
responses, while extinction recall may be attenuated as a function of PD
pathophysiology. Future studies should investigate the predictive value of
experimental measures of extinction recall for clinical relapse.



DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2018.11.1108 
PMID: 30497840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. How older adults self-manage distress - does the internet have a role? A
qualitative study.

BACKGROUND: Anxiety and depression are common in older adults, but often
under-recognised by GPs. Rather than perceiving themselves as suffering from
anxiety or depression, older adults are more likely to self-identify as
experiencing low mood, stress or distress. Older people may also feel responsible
for managing their own mood problems. The Internet has the potential to support
the self-management of distress through accessing health information or social
support.
METHODS: This study was approved by Keele University's ethical review panel.
Older adults who self-identified as experiencing distress were recruited from
community groups in the West Midlands, England. To generate data, 'think-aloud'
methods (including storyboards and an extract from an online forum) were embedded
within semi-structured interviews. Thematic analysis, incorporating constant
comparison methods, were used for data analysis.
RESULTS: Data saturation was achieved after 18 interviews. All participants
reported having access to the Internet, but only a few described using the
Internet to obtain general information or to conduct online purchases. Most
participants described barriers to Internet use which included: a lack of
interest, knowledge and confidence, a fear of technology and no trust in social
media sites. Facilitators of Internet use included family encouragement and
attending community groups which taught computer use. Female participants
reported valuing the social contact provided by attending such groups. The
Internet was seen as a source of health information once a GP had diagnosed a
physical problem, but was not considered a source of information about distress
or mood problems. Participants did not use the Internet to access social support 
and described a preference for face-to-face communication.
CONCLUSIONS: GPs need to understand how an individual patient utilises the
Internet. GPs should explore the self-management strategies already employed by
older adults experiencing distress and understand that directing these older
people to online support might not be acceptable. Encouraging distressed older
adults to attend computer group classes might be useful as this permits
face-to-face social contact, and may help to facilitate Internet use in the
future.

DOI: 10.1186/s12875-018-0874-7 
PMCID: PMC6263534
PMID: 30497414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559.Are punitive parenting and stressful life events environmental risk factors for
obsessive-compulsive symptoms in youth? A longitudinal twin study.

BACKGROUND: Punitive parenting and stressful life events are associated with
obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCS). However, the lack of longitudinal,
genetically-informative studies means it remains unclear whether these factors
represent environmentally-mediated risks for the development of OCS.
METHODS: Twins and siblings from the Genesis1219 study completed self-report
questionnaires two years apart (Time 1: N = 2616, mean age = 15.0; Time 2:
N = 1579, mean age = 17.0 years) assessing OCS, maternal and paternal punitive
parenting, and dependent stressful life events. Multiple regression models tested
cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between the putative environmental 
risk factors and obsessive-compulsive symptoms using: (a) individual scores; and 
(b) monozygotic twin difference scores. The aetiologies of significant phenotypic
associations between putative risk factors and OCS were further examined using
multivariate genetic models.
RESULTS: At a phenotypic level, maternal and paternal punitive parenting and
stressful life events were all associated with OCS both cross-sectionally and
longitudinally. However, only stressful life events predicted the subsequent
development of OCS, after controlling for earlier symptoms. Genetic models
indicated that the association between life events and change in OCS symptoms was
due to both genetic (48%) and environmental (52%) influences. Overall, life
events associated with change in OCS accounted for 1.2% of variation in OCS at
Time 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Stressful life events, but not punitive parenting, predict OCS
change during adolescence at a phenotypic level. This association exists above
and beyond genetic confounding, consistent with the hypothesis that stressful
life events play a causal role in the development of obsessive-compulsive
symptoms.


DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2018.11.004 
PMCID: PMC6386579
PMID: 30496954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560.Internal and external signal processing in patients with panic disorder: An
event-related potential (ERP) study.

Self-absorption describes a pathological tendency towards the internal mental
world (internalization) that often conflicts with the accurate monitoring of the 
external world. In performance monitoring, an augmented electrophysiological
response evoked by internal signals in patients with anxiety or depressive
disorder seems to reflect this tendency. Specifically, the error-related
negativity (Ne/ERN), an index of error processing based on internal signals, is
larger in patients compared to controls. In the present experiment, we
investigated whether the preferential processing of internal signals in patients 
is linked to diminished and inflexible external signal processing. To this end,
the electrophysiological response evoked by external signals was analysed in
patients with panic disorder and healthy controls. Participants performed a
choice-response task, where informative or uninformative feedback followed each
response, and a passive viewing task. As a replication of previous studies,
patients presented an augmented Ne/ERN, indexing enhanced processing of internal 
signals related to errors. Furthermore, the vertex positive potential (VPP)
evoked by visual stimuli was larger in patients than in controls, suggesting
enhanced attention to external signals. Moreover, patients and controls showed
similar sensitivity to the feedback information content, indicating a normal
flexibility in the allocation of monitoring resources to external signals
depending on how informative these signals are for performance monitoring. These 
results suggest that the tendency towards internal signals in patients with panic
disorder does not hinder the flexible processing of external signals. On the
contrary, external signals seem to attract enhanced processing in patients
compared to controls.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0208257 
PMCID: PMC6264869
PMID: 30496321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Amantadine as adjuvant therapy in the treatment of moderate to severe
obsessive-compulsive disorder: A double-blind randomized trial with placebo
control.

AIM: The role of the glutamatergic system in the pathogenesis of
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) has been shown by numerous studies. The aim
of the present randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 12-week trial was to
assess the efficacy and tolerability of amantadine as an adjuvant to fluvoxamine 
in the treatment of patients with moderate to severe OCD.
METHODS: One hundred patients diagnosed with moderate to severe OCD were
randomized into two parallel groups to receive fluvoxamine (100 mg twice a day)
plus placebo or fluvoxamine (100 mg twice a day) plus amantadine (100 mg daily)
for 12 weeks. All patients received 100 mg/day fluvoxamine for 28 days followed
by 200 mg/day for the rest of the trial, regardless of their treatment groups.
Patients were evaluated for response to treatment using the Yale-Brown Obsessive 
Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) at baseline and at Weeks 4, 10, and 12. The main
outcome measure was to assess the efficacy of amantadine in improving the OCD
symptoms.
RESULTS: Repeated-measure analysis of variance showed a significant effect for
Time × Treatment interaction (Greenhouse-Geisser corrected: F = 3.84, d.f. =
1.50, P = 0.03) in the Y-BOCS total score and a significant effect for Time ×
Treatment interaction (Greenhouse-Geisser corrected: F = 5.67, d.f. = 1.48, P <
0.01) in the Y-BOCS Obsession subscale score between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study suggest that amantadine may be effective as
an augmentative agent in the treatment of moderate-to-severe OCD.

PMID: 30488617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Digitally Delivered Psychological Interventions for Anxiety Disorders: a
Comprehensive Review.

Digital interventions for anxiety disorders have been well-researched over the
past two decades. However, reviews to date have focused on internet-based
cognitive behavioural therapy (iCBT), whereas other psychological interventions
have received less attention. The aim of this review was therefore to evaluate
the effectiveness of digitally delivered psychological therapies (CBT, Attention 
Bias Modification, Exposure Therapy, Applied Relaxation, Bibliotherapy,
Psychodynamic Therapy, Mindfulness, Behavioural Stress Management, Counselling)
compared with control conditions and/or other psychological interventions for
anxiety disorders (Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD), Health Anxiety,
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD), Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD),
Specific Phobias, Panic Disorder (PD), Generalised Anxiety Disorder (GAD)]. 68
randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were reviewed. SAD was the anxiety disorder
for which the most RCTs were conducted. Overall, findings support the
effectiveness of iCBT for SAD; for the remaining interventions, although some
RCTs indicated significant improvement (within groups) at post-treatment and/or
follow up, between group findings were less consistent and overall,
methodological differences across trials failed to provide strong supporting
evidence. Finally, the level of therapist contact or expertise did not appear to 
affect much treatment effectiveness. Additional large, methodologically rigorous 
trials are needed to investigate further whether different digitally delivered
psychological interventions are equally effective for anxiety disorders.
Moreover, further studies are pertinent in order to examine the maintenance of
therapy gains after the end of treatments and understand how these work [(e.g.
the influence of therapist factors, user engagement and/or satisfaction,
potential access barriers and treatments with diverse population groups (e.g. BME
groups)].

DOI: 10.1007/s11126-018-9620-5 
PMID: 30488330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563.Fear of blood, injections and fainting as barriers to blood donation in Brazil.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The objective of the present study was to investigate 
the fear of blood, injections and fainting as barriers to blood donation in a
sample of primary healthcare users in a Brazilian municipality.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a cross-sectional survey of primary care patients 
in 12 randomly selected healthcare facilities in Ribeirão Preto, Brazil in
2015-2016. Key variables were lifetime blood donation history, intentions to
donate blood among non-donors and current donation practice. To assess fear of
blood in general (FBG), fear of injections in general (FIG) and fear of fainting 
due to fear of injection (FFI), we used the Blood Injection/Fear Scale (BIFS). We
tested associations between variables using regression models and conditional
inference trees (CIT).
RESULTS: A total of 1055 primary healthcare users participated (79·7% female,
mean age 40·6 years [SD = 15·2]), 63·4% never donated blood, 13·3% reported they 
are unable to donate, 6·1% donated only once, 17·2% donated multiple times. Women
had higher scores for FIG and FBG. FFI was associated with middle socioeconomic
status. Those who never intended to donate exhibited the highest scores in the
three dimension of fear. By CIT analysis, being female and high scores for FBG
are associated with decreased blood donation. Among males, blood donation
frequency is low among those aged 33 years and under.
CONCLUSION: Fear of blood, injections and fainting are barriers to blood donation
in Brazil. Efforts to recruit and retain blood donors should convey information
on blood donation processes and address misconceptions that may increase fear.



DOI: 10.1111/vox.12728 
PMID: 30485453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564.Impaired generalization of reward but not loss in obsessive-compulsive disorder.

BACKGROUND: Generalizing from past experiences can be adaptive by allowing those 
experiences to guide behavior in new situations. Generalizing too much, however, 
can be maladaptive. For example, individuals with pathological anxiety are
believed to overgeneralize emotional responses from past threats, broadening
their scope of fears. Whether individuals with pathological anxiety
overgeneralize in other situations remains unclear.
METHODS: The present study (N = 57) used a monetary sensory preconditioning
paradigm with rewards and losses to address this question in individuals with
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and social anxiety disorder (SAD), comparing 
them to healthy comparison subjects (HC). In all groups, we tested direct
learning of associations between cues and reward vs. loss outcomes, as well as
generalization of learning to novel choice options.
RESULTS: We found no differences between the three groups in the direct learning 
of stimuli with their outcomes: all subjects demonstrated intact
stimulus-response learning by choosing rewarding options and avoiding negative
ones. However, OCD subjects were less likely to generalize from rewards than
either the SAD or HC groups, and this impairment was not found for losses.
Additionally, greater deficits in reward generalization were correlated with
severity of threat estimation, as measured by a subscale of the Obsessive Beliefs
Questionnaire, both within OCD and across all groups.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that a compromised ability to generalize from
rewarding events may impede adaptive behavior in OCD and in those susceptible to 
high estimation of threat.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22857 
PMCID: PMC6945299
PMID: 30484928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565.Comparing cognitive styles in social anxiety and major depressive disorders: An
examination of rumination, worry, and reappraisal.

OBJECTIVE: Social anxiety disorder (SAD) and major depressive disorder (MDD) are 
commonly occurring and frequently comorbid disorders. Though individuals with SAD
and MDD are more likely to engage in rumination and worry, relatively few studies
have compared individuals with SAD, MDD, or both disorders on their use of these 
cognitive styles. Similarly, the extent to which the disorders differ in their
use of reappraisal remains unclear. Thus, the current study sought to
systematically examine rumination, worry, and reappraisal in individuals with and
without SAD, MDD, or both disorders.
METHODS: The study comprised 330 participants recruited from the community
(n = 54 with SAD, n = 61 with MDD, n = 69 with comorbid SAD/MDD, and n = 146
healthy controls). Following confirmation of diagnostic status via clinical
interview, participants completed measures of rumination, worry, and reappraisal.
RESULTS: Healthy controls reported less use of rumination (i.e., brooding and
reflection) and worry than individuals with a psychiatric diagnosis. Individuals 
with SAD or MDD did not differ from each other, but participants in both groups
reported less rumination, particularly brooding, than individuals with comorbid
SAD/MDD. Diagnostic group differences in reappraisal only emerged when
reappraisal was considered alongside other cognitive styles. Further, moderation 
analyses indicated that reappraisal was only associated with SAD or MDD when
participants also reported high levels of rumination and worry.
CONCLUSIONS: Results support transdiagnostic conceptualizations of rumination and
worry. They also suggest that reappraisal is only useful when it is used by
people who experience frequent and habitual negative cognitions.
PRACTITIONER POINTS: Individuals with SAD or MDD report more rumination and worry
than healthy controls, but do not differ from each other in their reliance on
these cognitive styles. Individuals with comorbid SAD/MDD endorse more rumination
than individuals with SAD or MDD alone, even after adjusting for differences in
symptom severity. Reappraisal may only predict diagnostic group status when
considered alongside other cognitive styles. In particular, high reappraisal may 
be associated with reduced risk of psychiatric disorder, but only when rumination
and worry are also high.
LIMITATIONS: The study was limited by its cross-sectional design and reliance on 
self-report measures. Participants were diagnosed using DSM-IV-TR criteria for
SAD and MDD.



DOI: 10.1111/bjc.12210 
PMCID: PMC6470033
PMID: 30484868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566.Physiological changes after spa treatment - a focus on endocrinology.

The paper presents the results of our effort to reveal objective parameters for
evaluation of the spa treatment for patients with anxiety-depressive disorders.
The study was based on our previous experience with neuroactive steroids and
neurosteroids, which play a crucial role in the psychological well-being of
patients by maintaining balance of the organism. A total number of 94 steroids
were determinated in a group of 70 female patients diagnosed with
anxiety-depressive disorders. Patients underwent a month spa treatment while
maintaining unchanged medication dosing with SSRI (selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitors). The other investigated factors contributing to improving the health 
of treated subjects were amino-acid homocysteine and serotonin. The blood samples
were collected at the beginning and the end of the spa treatment. Serotonin in
all patients increased by a relative 23 % (results given as relative differences 
in percent), while homocysteine decreased by 17.1 %. Statistically significant
increases were found in 21 steroids, which indicate activation of the adrenal
cortex. It can be assumed, that the overall improvement in the mental condition
of patients, which was proved by questionnaire from Knobloch and Hausner, the
increase in immune suppressive substances and anti-autoimmune responses, will
maintain for a longer time after the spa treatment.

DOI: 10.33549/physiolres.934016 
PMID: 30484679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567.Symptoms and Vocal Risk Factors in Individuals with High and Low Anxiety.

AIMS: To assess the frequency of vocal symptoms and risk factors in individuals
with high and low anxiety and to investigate the relationships among vocal
symptoms, risk factors, and anxiety levels.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 201 patients of both sexes with a mean age of
42.88 years (SD = 15.78) served as participants. The patients were divided into
two groups according to the level of trait anxiety: a low-anxiety group (n = 108)
and a high-anxiety group (HAG, n = 93). Data were collected using three
self-assessment instruments: the Vocal Screening Protocol, the Voice Symptom
Scale (VoiSS), and the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI).
RESULTS: The HAG presented higher scores in all VoiSS domains. There were
positive correlations between the total and emotional scores on the VoiSS and the
STAI Trait subscale. There were significant associations between 13 vocal risk
factors and anxiety levels.
CONCLUSION: Individuals with high anxiety present a higher frequency of vocal
symptoms related to either vocal limitation, physical aspects, or the emotional
impact of dysphonia. The higher the trait anxiety, the greater the total and
emotional scores on the VoiSS. Anxiety levels are associated with certain vocal
risk factors.



DOI: 10.1159/000494211 
PMID: 30481774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568.Validation of an interview-only version of the Dimensional Yale-Brown
Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (DY-BOCS) in treatment-seeking youth with
obsessive-compulsive disorder.

There is a growing body of evidence suggesting that individuals with
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) may be sub-typed along different symptom
dimensions. These dimensions may help explain responsiveness to current
treatments. The Dimensional Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (DY-BOCS) is a 
validated instrument involving a self-report screening tool followed by a
structured interview in which the presence/absence and severity of OCD symptom
dimensions are assessed and rated. The present study investigated the validity of
a briefer, interview-only version of the DY-BOCS modified for use in routine
care. Clinically-referred children and adolescents (N = 119) with OCD were
administered the DY-BOCS along with other measures of OCD, anxiety, depression,
and overall functioning and a subset (N = 100) were reassessed on average 14
months after initial assessment. This briefer, interview-only version of the
DY-BOCS demonstrated high levels of internal consistency and correlated in the
moderate to strong range with alternative measures of OCD severity and OCD
symptom dimensions. Change scores on the DY-BOCS from baseline to follow-up were 
significantly correlated with change scores on the alternative measures of OCD
and clinician-rated improvement, suggesting that this brief version of the
DY-BOCS is valid and sensitive to the effects of treatment for OCD delivered in
routine clinical care.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2018.11.048 
PMID: 30481695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569.Predictors of response to synchronized transcranial magnetic stimulation for
major depressive disorder.

BACKGROUND: Synchronized transcranial magnetic stimulation (sTMS) is a new
modality to reduce symptoms of major depressive disorder (MDD). sTMS uses
rotating neodymium magnets to deliver low-field stimulation matched to the
individual alpha frequency (IAF). A previous multisite study showed that sTMS
significantly reduced MDD symptoms in the per-protocol sample. To this end, we
evaluated clinical features associated with optimal sTMS outcomes.
METHODS: Using the per-protocol sample (n = 120) from the parent sham-controlled 
trial, we performed univariate and stepwise linear regression to identify
predictors of response after 6 weeks of sTMS. A subsample (n = 83) that entered a
4-week open/active continuation phase also was examined. Candidate variables
included age, sex, comorbid anxiety, number of failed antidepressants in the
current depressive episode, MDD severity (17-item Hamilton Depression Rating
Scale; HAMD17), anxiety symptom severity (HAMD17 anxiety/somatization factor),
and IAF.
RESULTS: We found that greater baseline depressive (p < 0.001) and anxiety
(p < 0.001) symptom severity were associated with better response to active sTMS,
whereas fewer failed antidepressant trials predicted superior response to sham
(p < 0.001). MDD severity and antidepressant resistance predicted outcomes in
open/active phase sTMS; lower IAF predicted poorer response in participants who
received 10 weeks of active sTMS (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Participants with greater severity of depression and higher anxiety 
had superior responses to active sTMS, whereas treatment naïve individuals
exhibited a greater response to sham. These results lend support to the primary
efficacy findings, and support further investigation of sTMS as a therapeutic
noninvasive brain stimulation modality.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22862 
PMID: 30480860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570.Systematic review and meta-analysis: Dose-response curve of SSRIs and SNRIs in
anxiety disorders.

BACKGROUND: We aimed to examine the efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for
anxiety disorders examining overall symptom improvement, likelihood of treatment 
response, time course of treatment response, individual pharmacological agent,
diagnostic indication dose, and tolerability.
METHODS: We searched PubMed and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials.
We included randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials of SSRIs/SNRIs in adult
patients with anxiety disorders that provided data at three or more time points. 
Extracted data included trial duration, weekly/biweekly anxiety scores for
12 weeks.
RESULTS: Meta-analysis included 57 trials (N = 16,056). A linear mixed model
analysis based on weekly outcome data suggested that for SNRI a logarithmic model
offered the best fit compared to placebo (indicating the greatest incremental
improvement from baseline occurred early in treatment); whereas for SSRI a linear
model provided the best fit (indicating a similar improvement over the duration
of the acute treatment phase). There were no significant differences in efficacy 
between pharmacological agents within each class or when comparing SSRIs to
SNRIs. The greatest treatment benefits were observed for social anxiety disorder 
for both medication classes. Higher doses of SSRIs, but not SNRIs, were
associated with significantly greater symptom improvement and likelihood of
treatment response. For both medical classes, higher doses were associated with
an increased likelihood of dropout due to side effects.
CONCLUSIONS: SSRIs and SNRIs are effective in treating anxiety disorders. Higher 
doses of SSRIs within the therapeutic range are associated with greater treatment
benefit, whereas higher doses of SNRIs are not.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22854 
PMID: 30479005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571.Experiences of self-conscious emotions in temporal lobe epilepsy.

Self-conscious emotions (SCEs) with a negative valence (such as shame and guilt) 
or a positive valence (such as pride) are moral emotions that emerge from
self-reflection and self-evaluation processes in social contexts. In some
neurologic and psychiatric disorders, experiences of SCEs are dysregulated. The
objectives of the present study were to (i) evaluate whether patients with
temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) experience SCEs in the same way as nonclinical
(control) participants and (ii) probe the relationships between experiences of
SCEs on the one hand and the psychological symptoms frequently diagnosed in
patients with TLE (anxiety and depression), the patients' clinical
characteristics, and their functional outcomes in everyday life on the other.
Sixty-one patients with TLE and 61 matched controls completed a
self-questionnaire (the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS)) that
enabled us to evaluate the extent to which they experienced shame, guilt, and
pride. Demographic data, cognitive data, the severity of anxiety symptoms, and
the severity of depressive symptoms were recorded for all participants. In
patients with TLE, data of clinical characteristics and quality of life were also
evaluated. Relative to controls, patients with TLE were more likely to experience
negative-valence SCEs to a higher extent and positive SCEs to a lesser extent.
The patients who experienced negative-valence SCEs to a higher extent (rather
than to a lesser extent) had a higher frequency of seizures, more severe anxiety 
and depressive symptoms, and a greater prevalence of anxiety and depressive
disorders. Furthermore, patients who experienced positive-valence SCEs to a
lesser extent (rather than to a higher extent) displayed a higher level of
anxiety. Lastly, differences in experiences of SCEs by patients with TLE were
associated with a lower quality of life. In conclusion, experiences of SCEs can
be dysregulated in patients with TLE. This dysregulation is linked to the
patients' clinical and psychological symptoms and quality of life. In this
context, SCEs might be a target of interest in the management of epilepsy.



DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2018.10.028 
PMID: 30476808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572.Behavioral inhibition and activation as a modifier process in autism spectrum
disorder: Examination of self-reported BIS/BAS and alpha EEG asymmetry.

The Modifier Model of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) suggests that phenotypic
variability within ASD is rooted in modifier processes, such as the behavioral
inhibition system (BIS) and behavioral activation system (BAS). Among a sample of
53 adolescents with ASD, this study examined associations between (a)
self-reported BIS/BAS and frontal and parietal alpha electroencephalogram
asymmetry and whether these indices related to (b) ASD severity (via the Autism
Quotient), and/or (c) co-occurring anxiety and attention-deficit hyperactivity
disorder (via Youth Self Report and Child Behavior Checklist). Findings showed
that alpha asymmetry was associated with self-reported BAS scores, such that
greater BAS was related to greater right-frontal hemisphere activation and
relatively greater left-parietal hemisphere activation. Additionally,
associations emerged between ASD severity and self-reported BAS and alpha
asymmetry, and between anxiety symptoms and self-reported BIS and alpha
asymmetry. Furthermore, mediation analyses revealed that BAS mediated the
association between asymmetry and autism severity. Therefore, alpha asymmetry and
BIS/BAS activity may provide insight into how ASD presents in adolescence as well
as who might be at greater risk for developing co-occurring psychopathologies.
This study highlights the importance of considering motivational systems to
elucidate individual differences among youth with ASD and working toward the
longer term goal of better understanding differential responses to treatment.
Autism Research 2018, 11: 1653-1666. © 2018 International Society for Autism
Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc. LAY SUMMARY: Differences in the likelihood to
avoid (behavioral inhibition system; BIS) or approach (behavioral activation
system; BAS) situations are thought to relate to patterns of brain activity (via 
electroencephalogram asymmetry asymmetry). This study revealed that these
tendencies may influence the presentation of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and
symptoms of anxiety in adolescents with ASD.



DOI: 10.1002/aur.2016 
PMID: 30475457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573.Social difficulties in youth with autism with and without anxiety and ADHD
symptoms.

Social difficulties inherent to autism spectrum disorder are often linked with
co-occurring symptoms of anxiety and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
(ADHD). The present study sought to examine the relation between such
co-occurring symptoms and social challenges. Parents of adolescents with autism
(N = 113) reported upon social challenges via the social responsiveness scale
(SRS) and anxiety and ADHD symptomatology via the Child Behavior Checklist.
Results revealed differences in SRS scores across co-occurring symptom subgroups 
(Anxiety, ADHD, Both, Neither)-namely, adolescents with autism and anxiety as
well as those with autism, anxiety, and ADHD showed greater scores on the SRS
than the other groups. Implications for research and clinical practice are
discussed and recommendations are offered. Autism Research 2018, 11: 1679-1689. ©
2018 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc. LAY
SUMMARY: Anxiety and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms are
related to greater social challenges for adolescents with autism spectrum
disorder. The present study found that autism with anxiety and autism with
anxiety and ADHD, was related to greater social difficulties than autism alone.
Findings provide further support for the intertwined nature of anxiety and ADHD
symptoms in autism. What this may mean for research and clinical practice is
considered and recommendations are suggested.



DOI: 10.1002/aur.2039 
PMCID: PMC6311999
PMID: 30475451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574.Child maltreatment and mental health problems in adulthood: birth cohort study.

BACKGROUND: Retrospective studies have shown a high association between child
abuse and subsequent psychiatric morbidity. Prospective studies are rarer.AimsTo 
examine, using a prospective record-linkage analysis, whether substantiated child
maltreatment is associated with adverse psychological outcomes in early
adulthood.
METHOD: The participants were 3778 mother and child pairs enrolled in a
population-based birth cohort study in Brisbane, Australia. Exposure to suspected
child maltreatment was measured by linkage with state child protection agency
data. The primary outcomes were the internalising and externalising scales of the
Youth Self-Report and the Centre for Epidemiological Studies-Depression scales
(CES-D) at approximately 21 years of age. A subset completed the Composite
International Diagnostic Interview-Auto version (CIDI-Auto).
RESULTS: In total, 171 (4.5%) participants had a history of substantiated child
maltreatment, most commonly emotional abuse (n = 91), followed by physical abuse 
(n = 78), neglect (n = 73) and sexual abuse (n = 54). After adjustment for
potential confounders, depressive symptoms on the CES-D, as well as internalising
and externalising behaviours were strongly associated with substantiated abuse in
all forms, except sexual abuse. The results for the subset of the sample who
completed the CIDI-Auto were less clear. Anxiety, especially post-traumatic
stress disorder, showed the strongest association whereas the findings for
depressive disorder were equivocal. However, across all diagnostic categories,
emotional abuse and neglect, as well as multiple forms of abuse, showed a
consistent association.
CONCLUSIONS: Child maltreatment, particularly neglect and emotional abuse, has
serious adverse effects on early adult mental health. These two warrant the
attention given to other forms of child maltreatment. Children experiencing more 
than one type of maltreatment are at particular risk.Declaration of interestNone.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.2018.207 
PMID: 30475193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575.Evaluation of vilazodone for the treatment of depressive and anxiety disorders.

INTRODUCTION: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and General Anxiety Disorder (GAD) 
significantly contribute to the global burden of disease. Vilazodone, a combined 
serotonin reuptake inhibitor and 5-HT1A partial agonist, is an approved therapy
for the treatment of MDD and which has been further investigated for GAD. Areas
covered: This article covers the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of
vilazodone and provides an evaluation of the clinical usefulness of vilazodone
for the treatment of MDD and anxiety disorders. A literature search was performed
using PubMed/MEDLINE, Web of Science and the Cochrane Library. Expert opinion:
Studies have shown that vilazodone is significantly superior to placebo. However,
vilazodone cannot as yet be recommended as a first-line treatment option for MDD 
as it is unclear whether the drug's dual mechanism of action provides greater
efficacy than prevailing treatment options. Moreover, more phase IV studies are
needed to establish its efficacy and long-term safety in larger and more diverse 
populations. Although vilazodone may have an additional advantage for the
treatment of anxiety symptoms in MDD, here also additional studies are required
to confirm its efficacy over and above SSRI alternatives and other antidepressant
treatments. Therefore, presently, vilazodone should be considered as a second- or
third-line treatment option for MDD and GAD.

DOI: 10.1080/14656566.2018.1549542 
PMID: 30475091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576.Cross-species examination of single- and multi-strain probiotic treatment effects
on neuropsychiatric outcomes.

Interest in elucidating gut-brain-behavior mechanisms and advancing
neuropsychiatric disorder treatments has led to a recent proliferation of
probiotic trials. Yet, a considerable gap remains in our knowledge of probiotic
efficacy across populations and experimental contexts. We conducted a
cross-species examination of single- and multi-strain combinations of established
probiotics. Forty-eight human (seven infant/child, thirty-six young/middle-aged
adult, five older adult) and fifty-eight non-human (twenty-five rat, twenty-seven
mouse, five zebrafish, one quail) investigations met the inclusion/exclusion
criteria. Heterogeneity of probiotic strains, substrains, and study methodologies
limited our ability to conduct meta-analyses. Human trials detected variations in
anxiety, depression, or emotional regulation (single-strain 55.6%; multi-strain
50.0%) and cognition or social functioning post-probiotic intake (single-strain
25.9%; multi-strain 31.5%). For the non-human studies, single- (60.5%) and
multi-strain (45.0%) combinations modified stress, anxiety, or depression
behaviors in addition to altering social or cognitive performance (single-strain 
57.9%; multi-strain 85.0%). Rigorous trials that confirm existing findings,
investigate additional probiotic strain/substrain combinations, and test novel
experimental paradigms, are necessary to develop future probiotic treatments that
successfully target specific neuropsychiatric outcomes.



DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2018.11.010 
PMCID: PMC6601643 [Available on 2020-04-01]
PMID: 30471308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577.Autonomic reactivity in blood-injection-injury and snake phobia.

OBJECTIVE: This research aimed to study the salivary flow and other autonomic
reactions -heart rate (HR) and skin conductance response (SCR)- in
blood-injection-injury (BII) phobia and snake phobia participants, under the
assumption that exposure to blood-related pictures in BII phobia will provoke an 
increase in parasympathetic activity that, in turn, will lead to a greater saliva
production than other affective contents.
METHODS: We selected 18 BII phobia and 14 snake phobia participants along with 22
non-phobia individuals. All participants were exposed to 3 blocks of pictures (12
pictures per block) depicting either mutilations, snakes or neutral, household
objects. Saliva samples were taken in the 2-min interval before and after each
block.
RESULTS: In comparison to other contents, blood-related pictures provoked an
increase in salivary flow in BII phobia participants, as well as an increase in
the number of SCRs. In the snake phobia group, snake pictures provoked HR
acceleration, but the SCRs they elicited did not differ from the SCRs provoked by
the blood-related pictures.
CONCLUSION: BII phobia individuals react to their phobic object with a series of 
physiological changes resulting from a sympathetic-parasympathetic co-activation.
This is in contrast with other specific phobias (e.g., small animal phobias) that
usually show a sympathetically mediated, defensive reactivity when exposed to
their disorder-relevant stimuli. These data support the use of therapeutic
interventions in BII phobia that may differ in some respect from those used in
other specific phobias.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2018.10.018 
PMID: 30470310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578.The association between spirituality and religiousness and mental health.

The present study aims to investigate how different levels of spirituality and
religiousness (high spirituality and high religiousness -S/R, high spirituality
and low religiousness -S/r, low spirituality and high religiousness s/R and low
spirituality and low religiousness - s/r) are associated with quality of life,
depressive symptoms, anxiety, optimism and happiness among adults. A
cross-sectional study was carried out among 1,046 Brazilian adults. Concerning
the different levels of spirituality and religiousness, 49.2% had s/r, 26.5% S/R,
17.2% S/r and 7.1% s/R. Participants with S/R had better outcomes as compared to 
those with s/r and those with S/r in WHOQOL Psychological, Social Relationship
and Environment, Optimism and happiness. Participants with s/R had better
outcomes as compared to those with s/r in WHOQOL Psychological and Social
Relationship, Optimism and happiness. Participants with S/r were different from
those with s/r, with higher levels of WHOQOL Environment and happiness but also
anxiety. The results revealed that, having higher levels of both spirituality and
religiousness were more correlated to better outcomes than having just one of
them or none of them. Likewise, having higher levels of religiousness in
detriment of higher levels of spirituality was also associated with better
outcomes in comparison to others.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-35380-w 
PMCID: PMC6250706
PMID: 30467362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579.Comparison of age of first drink and age of first intoxication as predictors of
substance use and mental health problems in adulthood.

BACKGROUND: International public policy on age of first alcoholic drink (AFD) has
emphasised the long-term benefits of delaying AFD. This study aimed to compare
AFD to age of first intoxication (AFI) as predictors of substance use disorder
and mental disorder outcomes in adulthood.
METHODS: Data were obtained from a longitudinal birth cohort in Christchurch, New
Zealand. Participants were born in 1977. Analysis samples ranged from n = 1025
(age 18) to n = 962 (age 35). Measures of AFD and AFI were generated using
parental- and self-report data collected from age 11. Outcomes at age 18-35 were 
alcohol quantity consumed, DSM-IV alcohol use disorder (AUD) and AUD symptoms,
major depression, anxiety disorder, and nicotine, cannabis, and other illicit
drug dependence. Covariate factors measured during childhood included family
socioeconomic status, family functioning, parental alcohol-related
attitudes/behaviours, and individual factors.
RESULTS: There was a significant unadjusted association between AFD and symptoms 
of AUD (p < .001) and nicotine dependence (p < .05) but not other outcomes. AFI
was significantly (p < .05) associated with all outcomes. After adjustment for
covariates, the association between AFD and outcomes was not statistically
significant. Conversely, in adjusted models, statistically significant (p < .05) 
associations remained between AFI and all AUD and substance use disorder outcomes
but not alcohol consumption or mental disorder outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: AFI was a more robust predictor of adult substance use disorder
outcomes than AFD. Public health and policy interventions aimed at prevention of 
long term harms from alcohol should therefore focus on AFI rather than AFD.



DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2018.10.012 
PMID: 30466041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. The role of spatial store and executive strategy in spatial working memory: a
comparison between patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder and controls.

INTRODUCTION: Patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) showed impaired
spatial working memory (SWM). We evaluated whether patients and healthy controls 
(HCs) differed in spatial store capacity, and whether they differed in the
relative weight of spatial store capacity and/or executive strategy in SWM.
METHODS: Thirty inpatients with OCD and 31 age- and education-matched HCs
underwent the CANTAB SWM, SRM (a measure of spatial store). The severity of OC
symptoms was assessed using the Y-BOCS. Statistical significance: α = 0.05.
RESULTS: Patients showed poorer performance than HCs in all neuropsychological
outcomes. Both poorer SRM and SWM strategy were significantly associated with
poorer SWM in the entire sample. No significant interaction between SRM and Group
was found, while a significant interaction between SWM strategy and Group
emerged; in patients the magnitude of this association was approximately twofold 
larger than in HCs. OC symptom severity did not correlate with neuropsychological
performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with OCD had poorer spatial store capacity than HCs.
However, the weight of poorer executive strategy in SWM was greater in patients
than HCs, whereas the weight of spatial store was similar. We provided a direct
evidence that an impairment in the executive component might be the crucial
factor influencing the poorer SWM of these patients.

DOI: 10.1080/13546805.2018.1544888 
PMID: 30463498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Factors related to excessive sleepiness in patients with Parkinson's disease.

INTRODUCTION: Excessive sleepiness (ES) can affect up to 60% of Parkinson's
disease (PD) patients, and it has a multifactorial etiology. It is related to the
neurodegenerative processes affecting brain regions responsible for the
sleep-wake cycle, the effects of drugs acting on the central nervous system, and 
the excessive sleep fragmentation of this population.
OBJECTIVES: To identify the factors associated with the presence of ES in
patients with PD.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was performed involving 88 consecutive patients 
with PD from an outpatient clinic. Participants underwent clinical interviews
with neurologists and psychiatrist, assessment using standardized scales (Epworth
Sleepiness Scale, Parkinson's disease Questionnaire, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality
Index and, for individuals with a diagnosis of RLS/WED, International RLS/WED
grading scale), and video-polysomnography.
RESULTS: The complaint of ES was observed in 55.6% of the participants. The main 
related factors were: the presence of psychotic disorder, the presence of anxiety
disorder, and the use of dopaminergic agonists. No higher prevalence of
obstructive sleep apnea and any other sleep disorder was observed in PD group
with ES in comparison with the group without ES.
CONCLUSION: PD patients present a high prevalence of ES, and some factors,
different from those observed in the general population, seem to have a greater
impact in this group of patients.
ABBREVIATIONS: RLS/ WED: Restless legs syndrome; Willis-Eckbom Disease ES:
Excessive sleepiness.

DOI: 10.1080/01616412.2018.1548746 
PMID: 30462589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Kinesiophobia Is Associated with Migraine.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess kinesiophobia in patients with
migraine and to determine its association and correlation with cutaneous
allodynia and clinical manifestations of migraine.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional study.
SETTING: A headache clinic of a university-based hospital.
SUBJECTS: Eighty-nine patients diagnosed with migraine by a neurologist
specialized in headache.
METHODS: Patients completed the Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia (TSK) and the
12-item Allodynia Symptom Checklist (ASC-12) and described the frequency,
duration, and intensity of migraine attacks, as well as number of years with
migraine.
RESULTS: The prevalence of kinesiophobia was 53%, and it was associated with the 
classification of severe cutaneous allodynia (X2= 9.96, P = 0.02) but not with
its presence (X2= 3.11, P = 0.07). Kinesiophobia and clinical migraine features
were not significantly associated (P > 0.05), nor were TSK score, ASC-12 score,
or clinical migraine features (r < 0.21, P > 0.05). Subjects with migraine, with 
or without kinesiophobia, believed that physical activity could not help to
control or relieve their pain, and those with kinesiophobia, furthermore,
believed that exercise may be harmful.
CONCLUSIONS: Kinesiophobia is present in about half of migraineurs. It was
associated with worsened cutaneous allodynia severity, but not with its presence,
in patients with migraine. Education strategies should be implemented as negative
beliefs related to exercise are present despite its evidence of benefit in
migraine treatment.


DOI: 10.1093/pm/pny206 
PMID: 30462312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Antenatal Anxiety: Prevalence and Patterns in a Routine Obstetric Population.

INTRODUCTION: Expectant mothers may appear anxious even during healthy
pregnancies. Unfortunately, little is known about antenatal anxiety, and affected
women may remain undetected and untreated. This study aimed to examine the
prevalence, incidence, course and associations of high state anxiety in routine
obstetric care.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was an observational prospective cohort study at a
large maternity unit. Obstetric outpatients with low-risk singleton pregnancies
were recruited during first trimester consultations. Participants provided
sociodemographic data and completed the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) and 
Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale. The STAI was re-administered at each
subsequent trimester.
RESULTS: Prevalence and incidence of  high state anxiety among 634 completers
were 29.5% (95% CI 25.6%-33.6%) and 13.9% (95% CI 9.9%-18.0%), respectively.
Anxiety was persistent in 17.0% (95% CI 14.3%-20.2%) and transient in 26.3% (95% 
CI 23.1%-29.9%). Only persistently anxious participants had high mean second
trimester state anxiety scores. Odds for anxiety of greater persistence increased
by 29% (95% CI 24%-35%) per 1-point increase in first trimester depression
scores, and decreased by 36% (95% CI 7%-56%) with tertiary education.
CONCLUSION: Antenatal anxiety symptoms are common even in normal pregnancies,
especially among women with depression and lower education. Our study indicates
value in exploring diagnostic criteria and quantitative measures for antenatal
anxiety.


PMID: 30460967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Cognitive functions in young adults with generalized anxiety disorder.

BACKGROUND: Anxiety and worry are central symptoms of Generalized Anxiety
Disorder (GAD) that have been theorized to negatively impact cognitive functions.
However, most of the research has focused on threat-related or
emotionally-charged stimuli, and a surprisingly small number of investigations
examined 'cold' cognitive functions using classic neuropsychological tests. Such 
investigations are particularly important given that some theoretical models
suggest compensatory mechanisms associated with anxiety that in certain
circumstances may result in intact performance. The aim of the present study is
to assess the neuropsychological profile associated with GAD, using a
comprehensive neuropsychological battery.
METHODS: A sample of 23 college students meeting criteria for DSM-5 GAD and 20
control participants completed a psychometrically valid comprehensive
computerized neuropsychological battery and clinical questionnaires.
RESULTS: The GAD sample presented with significantly elevated symptomatic rates
of anxiety, worry, depression and stress. However, no significant differences
were found on any neuropsychological outcome measures or domain indexes. Effect
sizes were small, some of which favored the GAD sample.
CONCLUSION: Despite substantial psychopathological burden, GAD exhibited intact
cognitive functioning. These results support the Cognitive Control Theory of
Anxiety, suggesting that elevated primary anxiety may not impact 'cold' cognitive
functions in the absence of threat or substantial cognitive load. Given that this
is one of the only studies employing a comprehensive neuropsychological battery
in GAD, more research is needed in this population to replicate these results and
to examine the impact of anxiety on cognitive functions at varying degrees of
cognitive load in this population.



DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2018.10.008 
PMID: 30458333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Critical aspects in the legal defence of patients with Tourette's Syndrome: An
Italian case series.

Tourette's syndrome (TS) is a developmental neurobehavioral disorder with
childhood onset and relevant burden in terms of disability and reduced quality of
life. In Italy the biological basis of this syndrome is still frequently ignored 
and TS is often recognised as a psychiatric manifestation, or even it is not
recognised as pathology, which may result in inadequate treatment, social
isolation and improper hospitalization. Indeed, the organic medical nature of TS 
needs to be taken into great consideration in evaluating causality of committing 
crimes in affected patients. In addition, delaying the diagnosis and consequently
proper treatment has a devastating impact on social as well as legal aspects in
patients with TS. The present report is aimed to present an Italian case series
of 4 TS patients who faced legal problems related to their mental condition, in
the intent to add further evidence, raise the level of awareness and encourage
further investigation in the field, as in most of the cases, patients' illness
was not taken into adequate account by the Justice. The relevant law is discussed
in detail.



DOI: 10.1016/j.ijlp.2018.08.003 
PMID: 30454556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Anxious brain networks: A coordinate-based activation likelihood estimation
meta-analysis of resting-state functional connectivity studies in anxiety.

Anxiety and anxiety disorders are associated with specific alterations to
functional brain networks, including intra-networks and inter-networks. Given the
heterogeneity within anxiety disorders and inconsistencies in functional network 
differences across studies, identifying common patterns of altered brain networks
in anxiety is imperative. Here, we conducted an activation likelihood estimation 
meta-analysis of resting-state functional connectivity studies in anxiety and
anxiety disorders (including 835 individuals with different levels of anxiety or 
anxiety disorders and 508 controls). Results show that anxiety can be
characterized by hypo-connectivity of the affective network with executive
control network (ECN) and default mode network (DMN), as well as decoupling of
the ECN with the DMN. The connectivity within the salience network and its
connectivity with sensorimotor network are also attenuated. These results reveal 
consistent dysregulations of affective and cognitive control related networks
over networks related to emotion processing in anxiety and anxiety disorders. The
current findings provide an empirical foundation for an integrated model of brain
network alterations that are common across anxiety and anxiety disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2018.11.005 
PMID: 30452934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587.Internet- and mobile-based interventions for anxiety disorders: A meta-analytic
review of intervention components.

BACKGROUND: Although the efficacy of Internet- and mobile-based interventions
(IMIs) for anxiety is established, little is known about the intervention
components responsible for therapeutic change. We conducted the first
comprehensive meta-analytic review of intervention components of IMIs for adult
anxiety disorders.
METHODS: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing IMIs for anxiety disorders
to active online control groups, or IMIs to dismantled variations of the same
intervention (± specific components) were identified by a systematic literature
search in six databases. Outcomes were validated observer-rated or self-report
measures for anxiety symptom severity and treatment adherence (number of
completed modules and completer rate). This meta-analytic review is registered
with PROSPERO (CRD42017068268).
RESULTS: We extracted the data of 34 RCTs (with 3,724 participants) and rated the
risk of bias independently by two reviewers. Random-effects meta-analyses were
performed on 19 comparisons of intervention components (i.a., different
psychotherapeutic orientations, disorder-specific vs. transdiagnostic approaches,
guidance factors). IMIs had a large effect when compared to active online
controls on symptom severity (standardized mean difference [SMD] of -1.67 [95%
CI: -2.93, -0.42]; P = 0.009). Thereby, guided IMIs were superior to unguided
interventions on symptom severity (SMD of -0.39 [95% CI: -0.59, -0.18];
P = 0.0002) and adherence (SMD of 0.38 [95% CI: 0.10, 0.66]; P = 0.007).
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the results of this meta-analysis lend further support to
the efficacy of IMIs for anxiety, pointing to their potential to augment service 
supplies. Still, future research is needed to determine which ingredients are
essential, as this meta-analytic review found no evidence for incremental effects
of several single intervention components apart from guidance.



DOI: 10.1002/da.22860 
PMID: 30450811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. The effect of repeated methotrexate injections on the quality of life of children
with rheumatic diseases.

In clinical practice, the burden of repeated injections in children with
rheumatic disease receiving disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs is
significant. To investigate the nature and extent of impact on the quality of
life after repeated injections, we conducted a literature review. Two relevant
papers were identified, both about children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis
(JIA) being administered methotrexate. The results suggest that the combination
of needle fear, impact of methotrexate treatment, and procedural consequences,
e.g., blood sampling, all contribute to the distress and the loss of quality of
life of children with JIA. Remarkably, no studies examining fear of injections or
injection pain in children with rheumatic diseases receiving biologicals were
identified.Conclusion: Strategies to optimize administration of disease modifying
anti-rheumatic drugs should be systematically investigated. What is Known: •
Repeated parenteral administration of drugs is burdensome for children with
rheumatic diseases. What is New: • Needle fear should be investigated
systematically to optimize administration of disease-modifying anti-rheumatic
drugs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-018-3286-8 
PMCID: PMC6311192
PMID: 30448866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Comorbidity of Borderline Personality Disorder: Current Status and Future
Directions.

Patients with borderline personality disorder have high rates of comorbid mood,
anxiety, substance use, and eating disorders. The longitudinal studies conducted 
on borderline patients over 10 years of prospective follow-up suggest that
patients with borderline personality disorder experienced declining rates of Axis
I disorders over time, but the rates of these disorders remained high compared
with those with other personality disorders. In addition, patients whose
borderline personality disorder remitted over time experienced a substantial
decline in all comorbid Axis I disorders, but those whose borderline personality 
disorder did not remit over time, reported stable rates of comorbid disorders.



DOI: 10.1016/j.psc.2018.07.009 
PMID: 30447726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Cognitive-behavior therapy for children and adolescents with anxiety disorders: A
meta-analysis of secondary outcomes.

Anxiety-focused cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) effectively reduces anxiety in
children and adolescents. An important remaining question is to what extent
anxiety-focused CBT also affects broader outcome domains. Additionally, it
remains unclear whether parental involvement in treatment may have impact on
domains other than anxiety. A meta-analysis (nstudies = 42, nparticipants = 3239)
of the effects of CBT and the moderating role of parental involvement was
conducted on the following major secondary outcomes: depressive symptoms,
externalizing behaviors, general functioning, and social competence. Randomized
controlled trials were included when having a waitlist or active control
condition, a youth sample (aged<19) with a primary anxiety disorder diagnosis
receiving anxiety-focused CBT and reported secondary outcomes. Controlled effect 
sizes (Cohen's d) were calculated employing random effect models. CBT had a large
effect on general functioning (-1.25[-1.59;0.90], nstudies = 17), a small to
moderate effect on depressive symptoms (-0.31[-0.41;-0.22], nstudies = 31) and a 
small effect on externalizing behaviors (-0.23[-0.38;-0.09], nstudies = 12) from 
pre-to post-treatment. Effects remained or even further improved at follow-up.
Social competence only improved at follow-up (nstudies = 6). Concluding,
anxiety-focused CBT has a positive effect on broader outcome domains than just
anxiety. Higher parental involvement seemed to have beneficial effects at
follow-up, with improvements in general functioning and comorbid symptoms.



DOI: 10.1016/j.janxdis.2018.10.005 
PMID: 30447493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591.Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) in patients with obsessive-compulsive 
disorder (OCD) and residual symptoms after cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): a 
randomized controlled trial.

Up to one-third of individuals with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) do not
benefit from evidence-based psychotherapy. We examined the efficacy of
mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) as a complementary treatment option.
In a prospective, bicentric, assessor-blinded, randomized, and actively
controlled clinical trial, 125 patients with OCD and residual symptoms after
cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) were randomized to either an MBCT group
(n = 61) or to a psychoeducational group (OCD-EP; n = 64) as an active control
condition. At post-treatment, there was no significant benefit of MBCT over
OCD-EP with the Yale-Brown-Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) as the primary
outcome measure, but with the Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory [OCI-R; F(1,
101) = 5.679, p = .036, effect size η2partial = 0.053]. Moreover, the response
rate and the improvement on secondary outcomes such as obsessive beliefs and
quality of life was significantly larger in the MBCT group. Non-completion rates 
were below 10%. At the 6-month follow-up, OC symptoms were further improved in
both groups; group differences were no longer significant. Our findings suggest
that MBCT, compared to a psychoeducational program, leads to accelerated
improvement of self-reported OC symptoms and secondary outcomes, but not of
clinician-rated OC symptoms. In the midterm, both interventions yield similar and
stable, but small improvements, suggesting that additional treatment options may 
be necessary.

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-018-0957-4 
PMID: 30446822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Assessment and treatment of trichotillomania (hair pulling disorder) and
excoriation (skin picking) disorder.

Recommendations are provided for the assessment and treatment of trichotillomania
(hair pulling disorder, or HPD) and excoriation disorder (skin picking disorder, 
or SPD), two body-focused repetitive behavior (BFRB) disorders, based on their
severity, comorbidities, and behavioral style. Habit reversal training (HRT) and 
stimulus control are first-line behavioral treatments that can be used in cases
of all severity levels and may be particularly helpful when pulling or picking is
performed with lowered awareness/intention. Acceptance and commitment therapy
(ACT) and dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) are behavioral treatments that can
be employed to augment HRT/stimulus control, especially when negative emotions
trigger the pulling or picking. There are currently no FDA-approved pharmacologic
treatments for HPD or SPD, though certain medications/supplements have shown
varying degrees of efficacy in trials. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) should be
considered for all severity levels and styles given its moderate gain/low side
effect profile. Other pharmacologic interventions, including selective serotonin 
reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), should be considered in cases with significant
comorbidities or previous behavioral/NAC treatment failure.



DOI: 10.1016/j.clindermatol.2018.08.008 
PMID: 30446196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Body-focused repetitive behaviors and the dermatology patient.

Body-focused repetitive behaviors (BFRBs) are psychiatric disorders that involve 
recurrent pulling and picking one's own body resulting in skin lesions with
varying degrees of severity. For that reason, the interface with dermatology is
important. Currently, the classified BFRBs are trichotillomania and excoriation
disorder. Both trichotillomania and excoriation disorder appear to be more common
than previously thought. Besides that, most patients are unlikely to seek mental 
health treatment for their condition. Thus, many patients will instead seek
dermatologic help due to the cosmetic damage incurred. In trichotillomania, the
main characteristic is the pulling out of one's hair, most commonly from the
scalp. It is associated with many negative consequences. Patients may present
with different patterns of alopecia. Often, more than one body part will be
affected. In excoriation disorder, the pathologic behavior frequently starts with
picking at an underlying dermatologic condition such as acne but can continue
after dermatologic treatment. The body area most frequently picked is the face,
but other sites may also be involved. The dermatologic findings and distribution 
are atypical and will help the clinician differentiate from other dermatologic
conditions. A complete therapeutic plan for BFRBs should include a dermatologic
assessment of the affected areas, psychotherapy, and possibly pharmacotherapy.



DOI: 10.1016/j.clindermatol.2018.08.004 
PMID: 30446195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594.The clinical role of well-being therapy.

PURPOSE: There are several clinical areas where psychological well-being may play
an important role: the assessment of the dynamic balance between ill-being and
well-being; reduction of incidence, prevention of recurrence and achievement of
full recovery in psychiatric disorders such as depression; patient's satisfaction
and perceived change after treatment. The aim of this article is to discuss the
clinical role of Well-Being Therapy (WBT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A critical review of the literature concerned with
psychological well-being and its treatment was performed. WBT is a short-term
psychotherapeutic strategy that emphasizes self-observation of psychological
well-being, with the use of a structured diary, cognitive restructuring of
interfering thoughts and/or behaviors through cognitive behavioral techniques,
and homework assignments (i.e. pursuing optimal experiences). WBT is based on a
multidimensional model of psychological well-being that was originally developed 
by Marie Jahoda and it is aimed at achieving a state of euthymia.
RESULTS: WBT has been validated in a number of randomized controlled trials. The 
sequential combination of cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) and WBT has mainly
characterized its use so far. Illustration of a clinical case exemplifies its
application and the potential role of psychological well-being in the clinical
process.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though more randomized controlled trials concerned with WBT are
needed, consideration of psychological well-being may unravel innovative
approaches to the prevention, assessment and treatment of mood and anxiety
disorders.

DOI: 10.1080/08039488.2018.1492013 
PMID: 30445901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595.Neural evidence for persistent attentional bias to threats in patients with
social anxiety disorder.

Does the biased attention toward social threats dwells on or disappears in
patients with social anxiety disorder (SAD)? We investigated the neural mechanism
of attentional bias in terms of attentional capture and holding in SAD. A total
of 31 SAD patients and 30 healthy controls performed a continuous performance
task detecting the orientation of a red letter 'T' while angry or neutral face
distractors appeared or disappeared at the center of the screen. Behaviorally,
typical attentional capture effects were found in response to abruptly appearing 
distractors in both groups. The patient group showed significant attentional
dwelling effects in response to the angry face distractor only. Patients showed
increased neural activity in the amygdala, insula/inferior frontal gyrus (IFG)
and temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) compared with those of controls for the
abruptly appearing angry distractor. Patients also maintained increased
activities in brain regions related to attentional reorienting to distractor,
namely the TPJ and IFG in line with their behavioral results of attentional
holding effects. Our results indicate that patients with SAD showed prolonged
attentional bias to task-irrelevant social threats. The underlying mechanism of
prolonged attentional bias in SAD was indicated with amygdala hyperactivity and
continued activity of the bottom-up attention network including the TPJ and IFG.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nsy101 
PMCID: PMC6277744
PMID: 30445473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Are children with social anxiety disorder more likely than children with other
anxiety disorders to anticipate poor social performance and reflect negatively on
their performance?

BACKGROUND: The cognitive theory of social anxiety disorder (SAD) suggests that
adults with SAD have a tendency to anticipate poor social performance and reflect
negatively on their performance following a social event. While a number of
studies with socially anxious adults have supported the role of poor performance 
anticipation and post-event rumination in SAD, to date, only a few studies have
addressed whether this also applies to children with SAD.
METHODS: Children (7-12 years) diagnosed with SAD (n = 40), other anxious
children (n = 40) and non-anxious children (n = 34) were exposed to a social
stressor speech task and their pre- and post-performance appraisals assessed,
taking into account objective performance ratings.
RESULTS: Although observers rated some aspects of performance as significantly
worse among children with SAD than children with other anxiety disorders,
children with SAD were not more likely than their anxious or non-anxious peers to
show a general bias in pre- or post-performance appraisals. Furthermore, children
with SAD were just as likely as their anxious and non-anxious peers to recognize 
good performance but were more critical of themselves when their performance was 
poor.
LIMITATIONS: The speech task did not involve a same-age peer. Participants were
relatively affluent group of predominantly non-minority status. Specificity for
SAD in relation to other anxiety disorders remains unclear.
CONCLUSIONS: Focusing on counteracting pre- and post-event social performance
appraisals may potentially be inappropriate for childhood SAD. Children with SAD 
might benefit from interventions that focus on helping them to become less
critical of themselves after social interactions have not gone well.



DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.021 
PMID: 30445381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. The relationship between obsessive compulsive symptoms and quality of life in
Nigerian patients with schizophrenia.

BACKGROUND: Obsessive compulsive symptoms (OCS) are relatively common in
schizophrenia. Their presence and severity can affect the quality of life (QoL)
of schizophrenia patients.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine the effect of OCS on the subjective QoL 
of the Nigerian outpatients with schizophrenia. It also determines the
sociodemographic and clinical factors associated with OCS.
METHOD: A cross-sectional study involving 232 patients with schizophrenia
completed socio-demographic and clinical characteristics questionnaire. OCS was
examined with Obsessive Compulsive Inventory (OCI) and QoL was assessed using the
brief version of the World Health Organisation Quality of Life questionnaire.
RESULT: Most of the schizophrenia patients with OCS were unmarried, unemployed,
had an earlier onset, longer duration of illness, and were on higher doses of
antipsychotics. They reported lower QoL and more severity of symptoms of
schizophrenia when compared to those without OCS. The OCI total and it's
subscales had negative weak to moderate relationship with all the domains of the 
WHOQoL Bref. Being unemployed, dosage of antipsychotic medication, negative
symptoms and OCI total were the predictors of the total quality of life among
Nigerian schizophrenia patients.
CONCLUSION: OCS are very common and reduce QoL of schizophrenia patients. Hence, 
there is a need to routinely screen patients with schizophrenia for OCS and
manage them appropriately.



DOI: 10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2018.07.003 
PMID: 30445337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598.Association of age and gender with anxiety disorders in older adults: A
systematic review and meta-analysis.

OBJECTIVES: To provide an estimate of 12-month and lifetime prevalence of
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition (DSM-IV)
anxiety disorders in older adults based on published studies on this topic and to
identify the impact of gender and age.
METHODS/DESIGN: A systematic review and meta-analysis was performed. Six
databases were searched, and manual searches through reference lists of selected 
articles and reviews were performed. When the information was available, summary 
effects were calculated for the prevalence of each anxiety disorder and for every
age and gender subgroups. Summary odd ratios (OR) were calculated to compare the 
prevalence of an anxiety disorder according to age and gender.
RESULTS: A total of 6464 studies were identified, and 16 studies were included in
the meta-analyses. Prevalence was significantly higher in women than men for
generalized anxiety disorder (12 month OR = 6.10, P = 0.001; lifetime OR = 1.96, 
P = 0.001), 12-month social anxiety disorder (OR = 2.07, P = 0.01), and lifetime 
post-traumatic stress disorder (OR = 1.93, P = 0.002). The prevalence of specific
phobia was significantly lower in both the 75 to 84 and 85 years and above age
groups when compared with the 65 to 74 years age group (OR = 0.70, P = 0.004 and 
OR = 0.63, P = 0.01, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the tendency for women to experience a
greater prevalence of anxiety disorders remains present in older adults. Specific
phobia was the only disorder to be less frequent with advancing age. This is
likely to change with the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual 
of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) criteria because this new DSM version now indicates
that fear of falling is a possible type of specific phobia and fear of falling is
generally more frequent in the oldest age groups.



DOI: 10.1002/gps.5035 
PMID: 30444008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Cognitive dysfunction and migraine.

Cognitive dysfunction has recently gained attention as a significant problem
among migraine sufferers. All of the clinical studies show poor cognitive
performance during migraine attacks, though, the interictal data are conflicting.
Migraineurs show impaired cognitive function interictally in most of the
clinic-based studies. Population-based studies did not reveal a difference in
cognitive functions between migraineurs and controls. The specific cognitive
domains involved are information processing speed, basic attention, executive
functions, verbal and non-verbal memory and verbal skills. Neurophysiological,
imaging and pharmacological studies support clinical symptoms of cognitive
impairment in migraine. Longitudinal studies do not suggest progressive cognitive
decline over time in migraine patients. Preventive medications and comorbid
disorders such as depression and anxiety can impact cognitive function, but
cannot fully explain the cognitive impairment in migraine. In contrast to
migraine, tension type or cluster headache are not associated with cognitive
impairment, at least during headache-free periods.

DOI: 10.1186/s10194-018-0933-4 
PMCID: PMC6755588
PMID: 30442090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]
